"","id","n","title","abstract","start_date","end_date","amount","currency","extending_org","subject","status","link"
"1","104981",2,"Multifunctionalized Microalgae (MM) - A novel and flexible platform technology for maximising feed/energy conversion ratios and treating severe infections in livestock","Production-purpose antibiotics are one of the great Faustian bargains of the modern era: mankind has traded

increased livestock yields today for AMR tomorrow. We propose that microalgae can be readily engineered to

express a wide range of naturally occurring antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory compounds which can both

substitute for production-purpose antibiotics as a means of maximizing feed/energy conversion ratios and treat

serious bacterial infections. Our objective in this project is to unequivocally demonstrate this using multi-

functionalized microalgae (MM) modified to accumulate two such agents in a series of rigorous field-trials in

both healthy and E.coli (K99)-infected calves. Our project is innovative in that MM can not only express these &amp;

numerous other functional biochemical compounds, but also constitute a uniquely low-cost and practicable

platform technology. 350 million Chinese still live on less than $3/day and microalgae is the only combined

expression/delivery system capable of synthesizing the full range of bioactive agents required for managing the

complexity of intestinal flora which can be cultivated by both industrial-scale and LMIC artisanal farmers alike.","2019-03-01","2022-07-31",726471,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104981"
"2","104981",2,"Multifunctionalized Microalgae (MM) - A novel and flexible platform technology for maximising feed/energy conversion ratios and treating severe infections in livestock","Production-purpose antibiotics are one of the great Faustian bargains of the modern era: mankind has traded

increased livestock yields today for AMR tomorrow. We propose that microalgae can be readily engineered to

express a wide range of naturally occurring antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory compounds which can both

substitute for production-purpose antibiotics as a means of maximizing feed/energy conversion ratios and treat

serious bacterial infections. Our objective in this project is to unequivocally demonstrate this using multi-

functionalized microalgae (MM) modified to accumulate two such agents in a series of rigorous field-trials in

both healthy and E.coli (K99)-infected calves. Our project is innovative in that MM can not only express these &amp;

numerous other functional biochemical compounds, but also constitute a uniquely low-cost and practicable

platform technology. 350 million Chinese still live on less than $3/day and microalgae is the only combined

expression/delivery system capable of synthesizing the full range of bioactive agents required for managing the

complexity of intestinal flora which can be cultivated by both industrial-scale and LMIC artisanal farmers alike.","2019-03-01","2022-09-30",726472,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104981"
"3","104982",2,"Novel Biocontrol to Combat Clostridium Perfringens in Poultry Flocks (Phagiotic)","This project is to develop a novel biocontrol ready for commercial sales to combat Clostridium perfringens (CP)

in commercial poultry flocks. CP is the bacterium that causes Necrotic Enteritis (NE) in chickens. NE &amp;

subclinical NE are estimated to cost global poultry industry over $6bn pa due to poor feed energy conversion

levels, mortalities, vet &amp; medicine costs and higher risk of human food poisoning. It is currently controlled by

antibiotics which are under pressure to be withdrawn globally in the face of the global antibiotic crisis. This

project’s novel biocontrol will be a combinative narrow spectrum product specifically targeted against toxigenic

strains of CP. It will act as a natural growth promoter (NGP) to be used in place of AGPs to support the global

battle against AMR. Withdrawal of AGPs in animal husbandry must be combined with effective alternative

NGPs to control NE if a catastrophic fall in feed energy conversion performance is to avoided. This project will

build on 5Yrs of research by the UK project lead including a 3 year KTP and now brings together a UK / Chinese

consortium with diverse technical and commercial capabilities to successfully bring the product to market.","2019-01-01","2022-09-30",749854,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104982"
"4","104982",2,"Novel Biocontrol to Combat Clostridium Perfringens in Poultry Flocks (Phagiotic)","This project is to develop a novel biocontrol ready for commercial sales to combat Clostridium perfringens (CP)

in commercial poultry flocks. CP is the bacterium that causes Necrotic Enteritis (NE) in chickens. NE &amp;

subclinical NE are estimated to cost global poultry industry over $6bn pa due to poor feed energy conversion

levels, mortalities, vet &amp; medicine costs and higher risk of human food poisoning. It is currently controlled by

antibiotics which are under pressure to be withdrawn globally in the face of the global antibiotic crisis. This

project’s novel biocontrol will be a combinative narrow spectrum product specifically targeted against toxigenic

strains of CP. It will act as a natural growth promoter (NGP) to be used in place of AGPs to support the global

battle against AMR. Withdrawal of AGPs in animal husbandry must be combined with effective alternative

NGPs to control NE if a catastrophic fall in feed energy conversion performance is to avoided. This project will

build on 5Yrs of research by the UK project lead including a 3 year KTP and now brings together a UK / Chinese

consortium with diverse technical and commercial capabilities to successfully bring the product to market.","2019-01-01","2022-09-30",749854,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104982"
"5","104983",2,"Adding Chinese herbal medicine to antibiotic treatment for acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease","Over 25 million people in China had Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) in 2010, and this is

projected to increase to over 42 million by 2020. Every year, the average COPD patient experiences 2-3 severe

episodes called &quot;acute exacerbations&quot; (AECOPD). These are often caused by bacteria and treated with

antibiotics, but many of these bacteria (especially in China) no longer respond to the commonest antibiotics,

leading to prolonged hospital admissions and more deaths. Shufung Jiedu (SJ), a Traditional Chinese Medicine

consisting of 8 traditional Chinese herbs, is already on the market in China. Preliminary research suggests that it

can reduce risk of hospitalisation and duration of hospitalisation in patients with AECOPD, and so it could

reduce the risk of antibiotic resistance. In this project we will conduct research in parallel in the UK and China

to test the effect of SJ in tackling antibiotic resistance in AECOPD, both in laboratory models and in clinical

trials. If successful, the results will support the inclusion of SJ in guidelines for the treatment for AECOPD both

in China and in the UK, which will open up a very large market for the product.","2019-04-01","2022-12-31",742078,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104983"
"6","104983",2,"Adding Chinese herbal medicine to antibiotic treatment for acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease","Over 25 million people in China had Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) in 2010, and this is

projected to increase to over 42 million by 2020. Every year, the average COPD patient experiences 2-3 severe

episodes called &quot;acute exacerbations&quot; (AECOPD). These are often caused by bacteria and treated with

antibiotics, but many of these bacteria (especially in China) no longer respond to the commonest antibiotics,

leading to prolonged hospital admissions and more deaths. Shufung Jiedu (SJ), a Traditional Chinese Medicine

consisting of 8 traditional Chinese herbs, is already on the market in China. Preliminary research suggests that it

can reduce risk of hospitalisation and duration of hospitalisation in patients with AECOPD, and so it could

reduce the risk of antibiotic resistance. In this project we will conduct research in parallel in the UK and China

to test the effect of SJ in tackling antibiotic resistance in AECOPD, both in laboratory models and in clinical

trials. If successful, the results will support the inclusion of SJ in guidelines for the treatment for AECOPD both

in China and in the UK, which will open up a very large market for the product.","2019-04-01","2022-09-30",742085,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104983"
"7","104984",2,"An integrated microfluidic – single cell Raman technology for rapid diagnosis of pathogens and their antibiotic resistance","The global spread of anti-microbial resistance (AMR) is one of the biggest threats to human health.

A rapid diagnosis of AMR within 1-3 hours to infectious disease will not only reduce uncertainty in diagnosis,

saving millions of lives (e.g. those lost through sepsis), but also enable an effective help to clinical doctors

making the best use of antibiotics: preserving the usefulness of existing antibiotics for longer and reducing the

urgency of discovering new ones. This project will develop such a diagnostic tool by integration of advances in

single-cell Raman spectroscopy, microfluidics and lab-on-a-chip and world-leading clinical expertise. Our new

methodology is based on the detection of the general metabolic activity of cells at the single cell level. It

overcomes inherent limitations in the existing growth-based and DNA-based technologies, providing both

speed and phenotype information needed for data-informed prescription. We anticipate that the

implementation of this new diagnostic tool in healthcare will transform current approaches based on

“empirical” rules, bringing significant benefits to patients and public health.","2019-01-01","2021-12-31",748507,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104984"
"8","104984",2,"An integrated microfluidic – single cell Raman technology for rapid diagnosis of pathogens and their antibiotic resistance","This project addresses the urgent need of rapid diagnostics for bacterial infection. It will deliver an entirely new method for identifying pathogens and antibiotic resistance within 3 hours, providing timely data to doctors to decide best treatment for patients. The realisation of this innovation will depend on successful convergence of complementary expertise in advanced single-cell technology, artificial intelligence/machine learning, clinical microbiology and infectious diseases from the UK and Chinese consortium. Four main innovations will be delivered from this multidisciplinary project: 1) a novel metabolic detection method by using Single Cell Raman Spectra (SCRS) as the readout instead of cell growth and thus removing the need for culture; 2) new acoustofluidic technology based on our previous research making this single-cell based detection feasible for clinical samples; 3) new Integrated system for clinical practice; 4) New databases and new methods for label-free, rapid diagnosis of frequently occurring pathogens.","2019-01-01","2022-09-30",748508,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104984"
"9","104985",2,"Development of attenuated bovine herpesvirus-4 as a safe, inexpensive, single dose vaccine to control Streptococcus suis infection in domestic pigs","Vaccines are one of medicine's greatest triumphs, having led to the virtual eradication of several deadly

bacterial diseases. However, most vaccines in use today were developed by techniques pioneered over 100

years ago and do not represent the full potential of the field. Bovine herpes virus vaccines (BoHV-4) are one of

the most promising classes of new vaccines, combining durability of immunity with low costs of manufacture.

In this project, we will develop a novel BoHV-4 vaccine against S. suis - a major disease affecting pig farmers

worldwide and a dangerous zoonotic pathogen in humans. The applicants will develop the novel vaccine using

immunogenic S. suis proteins and then test it in pigs to convincingly demonstrate both efficacy and a

quantifiable reduction in antibiotic usage. Our objectives are firstly to commercialize the vaccine within 3 years

post-project and secondly establish it as a flagship product within our powerful BoHV-4 platform which can be

targeted at many other serious bacterial infections affecting both animal and human health. The project is

innovative in that there are currently no effective vaccines for the treatment and prevention of S. suis in pigs","2019-04-01","2022-09-30",697783,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104985"
"10","104985",2,"Development of attenuated bovine herpesvirus-4 as a safe, inexpensive, single dose vaccine to control Streptococcus suis infection in domestic pigs","Vaccines are one of medicine's greatest triumphs, having led to the virtual eradication of several deadly bacterial diseases. However, most vaccines in use today were developed by techniques pioneered over 100 years ago and do not represent the full potential of the field. Bovine herpes virus vaccines (BoHV-4) are one of the most promising classes of new vaccines, combining durability of immunity with low costs of manufacture. In this project, we will develop a novel BoHV-4 vaccine against S. suis - a major disease impacting pig farmers worldwide and a dangerous zoonotic pathogen in humans. The applicants will develop the novel vaccine using immunogenic S. suis proteins and then test it in pigs to convincingly demonstrate both efficacy and a quantifiable reduction in antibiotic usage. Our objectives are firstly to commercialize the vaccine within 3 years post-project and secondly establish it as a flagship product within our powerful BoHV-4 platform which can be targeted at many other serious bacterial infections affecting both animal and human health. The project is innovative in that there are currently no effective vaccines for the treatment and prevention of S. suis in pigs.","2019-04-01","2022-09-30",697784,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104985"
"11","104986",2,"FARM WATCH: Fight AbR with Machine learning and a Wide Array of sensing TeCHnologies","Poultry is the 2nd most important source of meat in China, with consumption rapidly increasing. To meet demand, poultry production has made extensive use of antibiotics. China is the largest user of antibiotics for

food production in the world (23%). Overuse of antibiotics has been accompanied by increased appearance of

antibiotic resistance (ABR) and zoonotic transfer to humans via direct contact, environmental contamination
 and food consumption. Effective and rapid diagnostics of bacterial infection in chicken farming could reduce
 the need for antibiotics, thus reducing ABR. FARM WATCH will identify and validate new diagnostic biomarkers for use in the Chinese chicken farming industry. 

The biomarkers will be designed to predict and detect bacterial infection, insurgence of ABR, and zoonotic transfer to humans, by combining heterogeneous information collected from the production line. 

They will be developed from a thorough understanding of the
epidemiological pathways of infection, from large-scale collection of data and statistical modelling / data mining powered by machine learning and cloud computing.","2019-01-01","2022-08-31",743204,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104986"
"12","104986",2,"FARM WATCH: Fight AbR with Machine learning and a Wide Array of sensing TeCHnologies","Poultry is the 2nd most important source of meat in China, with consumption rapidly increasing. To meet demand, poultry production has made extensive use of antibiotics. China is the largest user of antibiotics for

food production in the world (23%). Overuse of antibiotics has been accompanied by increased appearance of

antibiotic resistance (ABR) and zoonotic transfer to humans via direct contact, environmental contamination
 and food consumption. Effective and rapid diagnostics of bacterial infection in chicken farming could reduce
 the need for antibiotics, thus reducing ABR. FARM WATCH will identify and validate new diagnostic biomarkers for use in the Chinese chicken farming industry. 

The biomarkers will be designed to predict and detect bacterial infection, insurgence of ABR, and zoonotic transfer to humans, by combining heterogeneous information collected from the production line. 

They will be developed from a thorough understanding of the
epidemiological pathways of infection, from large-scale collection of data and statistical modelling / data mining powered by machine learning and cloud computing.","2019-01-01","2022-09-30",743206,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104986"
"13","104987",2,"Evaluation of the Novel XF Drugs as Bacterial Resistance Breakers","There is an urgent need for new drugs to treat infections resulting from bacteria that are now resistant to many of the current marketed antibiotics. This is a global issue encountered in low and middle-income countries (LMICs) where healthcare provisions may be less prevalent and so the impact is even greater. 

The jointly funded UK Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) and Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology

(MoST) Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR) Industrial Research program aims to extend the knowledge surrounding the efficacy of novel anti-bacterial XF drugs to tackle World Health Organisation (WHO)-identified, high priority, multi-drug resistant (MDR) bacterial pathogens. 

The program will also examine the efficacy of these novel drugs in combination with existing, but largely ineffective antibiotics. Positive data from this study could lead to the development of a range of new medicines that could be competitively priced so as to permit patients from LMICs and China greater access to affordable medication.","2019-01-01","2022-08-31",586601,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104987"
"14","104987",2,"Evaluation of the Novel XF Drugs as Bacterial Resistance Breakers","XF drugs have shown potential to address antibacterial resistance and combat bacterial biofilms in a range of bacteria, including MRSA. This China-UK Industrial Research program seeks to extend the knowledge base and activity profile of these novel drugs. This will include study of multi-drug resistant (MDR), Gram negative and positive, high priority bacterial pathogens in vitro, within biofilms and within in vivo bacterial infection models. It will also evaluate combining XF-drugs with existing antibiotics to synergise and/or restore their efficacy against priority antibiotic resistant bacteria. Data generated will help develop medicines that address the growth of bacterial resistance either as a single drug or restore efficacy of ‘ineffective’ antibiotics by combination therapy. These new products represent a significant commercial opportunity allowing the partners to expand investment in R&D activities including an increased academic collaborations. In addition, new combination drugs (incorporating a generic antibiotic) could be competitively priced to enhance access to effective, affordable drugs to healthcare service providers in low and middle income countries, (LMICs).","2019-01-01","2022-09-30",642659,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104987"
"15","104988",2,"Research and Development of Alternative Feeding Antibiotic Products from Herbs","This project aim is the exploitation of bioactive compounds from Chinese herbs, to produce premixes for pigs and poultry feed, that can substitute for the antibiotics and hormones that are extensively used in livestock industries. The implementation of the project will solve the problem of the antimicrobial resistance related to the irrational use of antibiotics and hormones in livestock. While at the same time, this project will propose environmentally friendly procedures and techniques for the extraction of bioactive compounds and the formulation of the feed premixes, contributing to the growth of livestock and the increasing demand. Moreover, within the framework of the project a web platform and a database will be developed with information on the Chinese herbs and their functional properties, offering the chance and the knowledge to farmers to use alternative natural compounds.","2019-03-01","2022-08-31",670407,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104988"
"16","104988",2,"Research and Development of Alternative Feeding Antibiotic Products from Herbs","The main objective of this project is to produce premixes for animal feeds with antimicrobial and/or growth promoting activity from Chinese herbs with high content of bioactive compounds, such as alkaloids, polysaccharides and polyphenols. The aim being to substitute for antibiotics and hormones used in livestock. In addition a web platform aligned with a database will also be developed, providing users with the necessary information about the different premixes developed so that can decide which to use depending on their needs. Thus the usage of antibiotics and hormones in livestock will be minimized, reducing the direct economic cost, especially in low and middle income countries; while at the same time helping to solve the problem of drug resistant bacteria. The project will exploit novel extraction and product formulation techniques as well as in vivo and in vitro experiments for the maximum effectiveness of the final developed product. Finally the implementation of the project will create new business opportunities for both UK and Chinese partners and will offer benefits to both the scientists involved, but also to society.","2019-03-01","2022-09-30",670407,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104988"
"17","104989",2,"Development of a shortlist-and-test diagnostic platform for brucellosis in livestock","This project supports Biotangents (Penicuik), IceRobotics (Edinburgh) and Cranfield Univeristy in developing an

advanced pen-side diagnostic test for brucellosis, a highly contagious bacterial infection that primarily affects

livestock and poses an additional and significant threat to humans as a zoonotic disease. While Great Britain is

officially brucellosis free, prevalence of the disease has been increasing in China in both animals and humans in

recent years. Efficacy of antibiotics to treat brucellosis is variable. Biotangents will develop an accurate pen-

side test to facilitate the identification of infected animals and allow the spread of the disease in livestock

populations to be better controlled and the risk of transmission to humans, and subsequent demand for

antibiotics for treatment, to be reduced. This will be tested in China alongside IceRobotics' behavioural

monitoring platform that is able to monitor individual animal health status and shortlist those that may have acquired the disease.","2019-01-01","2022-03-31",687673,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104989"
"18","104989",2,"Development of a shortlist-and-test diagnostic platform for brucellosis in livestock","Brucellosis is a highly contagious bacterial disease that primarily affects livestock and poses a significant threat to workers in the livestock industry. Prevalence has been increasing in China in both animals and humans since 2000, and the global brucellosis threat is growing. Antibiotics are used to treat brucellosis in humans, but emerging antibiotic resistance is challenging their efficacy. An accurate pen-side test is required by vets and livestock owners in China to rapidly confirm any presence in livestock. This will facilitate culling of infected animals to reduce prevalence of the disease in livestock, the risk of transmission to humans, and the demand for antibiotics for treatment. The project will support the development of such a test by Biotangents and the evaluation of this test working alongside IceRobotics’ livestock behaviour monitoring platform, CowAlert®, which can identify suspected sick animals. This will be evaluated on farms by Chinese partners, with Nanjing RisingSun Biotechnology Company acting as commercialisation partner in China. Successful outcomes will bring a competitive diagnostic product to address a significant and rising threat to animal and human health.
 Project change request Jan 2021 - scope now brucellosis diagnostic, mastistis screening plus diagnostic, bovine viral diarrhoea screening plus diagnostic.","2019-01-01","2022-09-30",689171,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104989"
"19","104990",2,"Encapsulated antimicrobial precursors for non-antibiotic treatment of MDRO in poultry.","The use of antimicrobial treatments in agriculture is vital in protecting animal health and aiding the production

of safe and nutritious food. However, previous overuse, and continued use of antibiotics in agriculture has been

attributed to the rise in multi-drug resistance (MDR) bacteria, which can lead to ill-health and even death in

humans if infected. MDR bacteria have been identified in large numbers of animals and raw food products,

representing a major risk to public health and food system security. This is especially important in China and

developing countries which rely heavily on animal products for nutrition and livelihoods, with chicken being the

fastest growing protein source. GAMA Healthcare have developed an alternative antimicrobial treatment to

conventional antibiotics by coupling a cancer medicine delivery system (microparticles) with a new class of

short-lived antiseptic, which will be applied to reduce MDR bacteria in on chicken farms. The technology can be

customised to meet the specific needs of the end-user, delivering a toxic payload to bacteria present within the

animal and can be produced cheaply and safely, making it suitable for the agricultural/veterinary market.","2019-02-01","2022-08-31",489339,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104990"
"20","104990",2,"Encapsulated antimicrobial precursors for non-antibiotic treatment of MDRO in poultry.","Emerging resistance to antibiotics has been identified as one of the major threats to humanity and broader animal health. The demand for production of low cost, animal-derived food products for growing populations has contributed to the rise in antimicrobial resistance (AMR), with severe, well documented risks to human health. Farmers and veterinarians are under pressure to reduce use of antibiotics on farms despite risks to animal welfare, food security and food contamination to consumers. As such, alternatives to antibiotics are critically important. Gama Healthcare has trialled an alternative to traditional antibiotics for use in humans by identifying technologies from oncology and coupling them with potent biocides (precursors for two high energy oxidative antimicrobials, hydrogen peroxide and peracetic acid) to provide a wide spectrum of antimicrobial activity. This approach has been successful in treating antibiotic resistance bacteria in vitro and has shown safety and efficacy in rodent models. This project aims to test the patented technology for controlling AMR pathogenic bacteria in poultry. If successful, extension to other livestock species is also highly likely.","2019-02-01","2022-09-30",489339,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104990"
"21","104991",2,"Development of Key Technologies for Real-Time Diagnosis, Surveillance and Interventionof Resistant-Bacterial Infections Based on Nanopore Sequencing","The proposed project aims to tackle two of the major hurdles in the fight against AMR, new drugs and new

diagnostics. The new diagnostics will utilise cutting edge UK technology (Oxford Nanopore sequencing) to

provide test results with unprecedented depth of information within 6 hours as opposed to the current

technologies which routinely take 24-48 hours. The approach to new drugs entails developing &quot;Potentiators&quot; -

agents that can permeabilise the cell wall of bacteria allowing the use of established antibacterial compounds.

The Potentiators in this project target Gram-negative (OPT-200) and Gram-positive (OPT-1) bacteria and both

have novel modes of actions representing first-in-class antibacterial programmes. The focus of this project will

be on Hospital Acquired Pneumonia (HAP) and subset of HAP Ventilator Acquired Pneumonia (VAP). HAP/VAP

are important infections throughout the world and are a major cause of morbidity, mortality and increases in

hospital stay resulting in escalation of healthcare costs. The long-term goals of this project are to provide rapid

diagnosis technology for HAP/VAP that can be combined with a potentiator treatment regime.

Finance Summary Table – How to complete this section","2019-05-01","2022-07-31",642075,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104991"
"22","104991",2,"Development of Key Technologies for Real-Time Diagnosis, Surveillance and Interventionof Resistant-Bacterial Infections Based on Nanopore Sequencing","The proposed project aims to tackle two of the major hurdles in the fight against AMR, new drugs and new diagnostics. The new diagnostics will utilise cutting edge UK technology (ONT nanopore sequencing) to provide test results with unprecedented depth of information within 6 hours hours as opposed to the current technologies which rountinely take 24-48 hours. The approach to new drugs entails developing ""Potentiators"" -agents that can permeabilise the cell wall of bacteria allowing the use of established antibacterial compounds.The Potentiators in this project target Gram-negative (OPT-200) and Gram-positive (OPT-1) bacteria and both have novel modes of actions representing first-in-class antibacterial programmes.The focus of this project will be on Hospital Acquired Pneumonia (HAP) and subset of HAP-Ventilator Acquired Pneumonia (VAP). HAP/VAP are important infections throughout the world and are a major cause of morbidity, mortality and increases in hospital stay resulting in escalation of healthcare costs. The long-term goals of this project are to provide rapid diagnosis technology for HAP/VAP that can be combined with a Potentiator treatment regime.","2019-05-01","2022-09-30",642075,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104991"
"23","104992",2,"Development of an early diagnostic system for CRE in a prospective ECMO cohort","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2019-12-01","2022-09-30",668014,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104992"
"24","104992",2,"Development of an early diagnostic system for CRE in a prospective ECMO cohort","Emergence of carbapenem resistance (CRE) is a global health emergency and there is an urgent need for an affordable and fast diagnostic method for its detection.This is particularly true in LMIC countries that lack the resources to identify resistance early so that patients can be isolated and their treatment modified. This is contributing to the rapid spread of carbapenem resistance worldwide. The project will develop a rapid and low-cost immunodiagnostic assay for the detection and monitoring of carbapenem resistance that could be deployed in the absence of specialist analytical equipment. This will be assessed and validated in a large prospective cohort of Chinese ICU patients on ECMO who are receiving maintenance antibiotic therapy. A subsidiary objective is to use this data to develop models for the spread of resistance in patients and the community. The innovation stems from the recognition that immunoassays have potential advantages in the detection of antibiotic resistance, particularly in the setting of LMIC healthcare provision. This approach will use a novel immunisation strategy developed by Vacmedix.","2019-02-01","2022-12-30",726000,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104992"
"25","104993",2,"New smart diagnostics for infection","Currently, diagnosing a bacterial infection and selecting the correct antibiotic treatment can take up to 48hrs

and this often results in clinicians prescribing broad spectrum antibiotics, which may result in the development

of antibiotic resistance. This project aims to develop rapid, accurate and economical diagnostic tests for use in

China that will provide a diagnosis in less than 30 minutes without the need for complex laboratory equipment.

Furthermore, the tests will provide important information on antibiotic resistance, therefore enabling the

clinician to prescribe the most effective treatment and avoid the development of antibiotic resistance.

The project also aims to develop a Therapeutic Drug Monitoring (TDM) system that antibiotic treatments can

be accurately monitored through a simple blood test. The TDM will ensure that patients receive the correct

dosages of antibiotics for a given infection, thus ensuring rapid treatment of the infection and avoidance of

antibiotic resistance. The project will also develop a knowledge-based platform will help physicians track

infectious disease in China and provide advice to physicians on appropriate control strategies.","2019-01-01","2022-07-31",749465,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104993"
"26","104993",2,"New smart diagnostics for infection","This project aims to tackle current diagnostic limitations that prevent adequate control of antimicrobial drug-resistance (AMR) associated with Gram-negative bacteria in China. The two key problems are delays in identifying drug-resistant strains; and incomplete, ineffective or inadequate treatment due to problems with compliance, drug absorption, etc., that promotes emergence of DR. The UK commercial partner, Molecular Warehouse (MW) has reengineered the glucose biosensor platform to develop a universal biosensor (UB) capable of detection of a diverse range of analytes in clinical samples. The Aim of this project is to repurpose this technology to develop novel, smart, inexpensive hand-held biosensors for detection of antibiotic resistance genes and therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of serum concentrations of antibiotics. The biosensors will be integrated with an Infectious Disease Knowledge Platform to be developed by our partners in China and subjected to clinical trials in China. The success of the project will increase the visibility and competitiveness of MW and BT in the international market and generate significant outcomes to improve control of AMR in China. and potentially further afield","2019-01-01","2022-09-30",749599,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104993"
"27","104994",2,"Novel small molecule and TCM approaches to support pig production, minimizing generation of resistance to human antibiotics","The emergence of resistance to antibiotics is a major health concern. To address this concern, this project will

address multiple aspects of antibacterial resistance, bringing together complementary expertise in the UK and

China. Antibiotics are widely used in agriculture, where they have a valid role in protecting farm animals from

disease and increasing food production. However, the use of antibiotics that are also used to treat humans

could lead to increased antimicrobial resistance. One of the aims of this project is to develop a new class of

antibiotics that are specific to a species of bacteria that cause infections in pigs, which would enable reduced

use of human antibiotics in farming. A second aspect of the proposal is to investigate the use of traditional

Chinese medicines (TCMs) in veterinary settings. TCMs are typically complex mixtures with unknown

mechanism of action. We will use sophisticated computational modelling methods, specifically a technique

called chemgenomics, to identify the active components of TCMs, which may enable further classes of

antibiotic to be rationally designed, or to be used synergistically with existing compounds.","2019-06-01","2022-08-31",740692,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104994"
"28","104994",2,"Novel small molecule and TCM approaches to support pig production, minimizing generation of resistance to human antibiotics","The widespread use of antibiotics in agriculture to support food production is a major AMR concern.
 This proposal will discover and develop novel small molecule drugs, traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs) and TCM components for the treatment of bacterial infections in pigs and to improve productivity.
 We have identified lead compounds that are inhibitors of novel bacterial targets, the histidine kinase of bacterial two-component signalling systems and a serine/threonine kinase. Because histidine kinases are novel targets, and not used in human medicine, a histidine kinase inhibitor could be used in veterinary applications without the concern that any resistance would transfer to human therapy.
 In a second aspect of the project, we have identified TCMs with interesting growth promotion activity. There is a major need to replace antibiotics used as growth promoters with new technologies. Our chemgenomics capability will be used to undertake computational investigation of the mechanism of action of the components and advance them to field trials and the market.","2019-06-01","2022-09-30",740692,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=104994"
"29","971507",2,"EML-VAC: Multivalent replicon vaccine against Ebola, Marburg and Lassa viruses","A multivalent hemorrhagic fever vaccine based on synthetic replicating ribonucleic acid (RepRNA) would provide one of the fastest and most cost-effective approaches to stop viral outbreaks at their source. This affords significant advantages over more conventional vaccine approaches such as viral vectors, and attenuated pathogens and would be safer in individuals unable to receive live attenuated vaccines (e.g. children and the immunocompromised). This vaccine may also find utility as a booster that can be used in combination with existing vaccines (e.g. rVSV-EBOV). The fully synthetic manufacture and ease of production provides the potential to produce hundreds of thousands of doses within a matter of weeks where the individual vaccine components targeting different hemorrhagic viruses can easily be combined. This may be critical to the global response against emerging hemorrhagic viral infections, as the nature of the next outbreak cannot be reliably predicted. In this respect the proposed multivalent vaccine has potential not only to protect against multiple known hemorrhagic viruses but is also more likely to show cross-protection against novel variants that may arise. The proposed vaccine can be effectively freeze-dried providing a portable and stable product that can withstand temperature oscillations without the requirement for a cold chain. The program aims to develop a multivalent vaccine against the most common human viral hemorrhagic fevers (two Ebola viruses, Marburg virus and Lassa virus). The choice of targets is based on strong scientific evidence that gene based approaches can protect against infection in preclinical models. This Part 1 project will support vaccine characterisation, proof of concept ‘in vivo’ studies and process finalisation, such that on completion of the project everything will be in place to rapidly move into early phase I human trials upon successful Part 2 funding. Our vision is to ensure appropriate costing for low and middle income countries and to make the vaccine readily available to organizations focused on global health (e.g. MSF and WHO), as these groups have historically been the first to detect, and/or respond to an outbreak, and are therefore ideally positioned to assist in implementing any vaccination strategy. Our Target Product Profile (TPP) is a temperature stable multivalent vaccine that can elicit protective immunity against the most common human viral hemorrhagic fevers following a single immunisation across all populations (adults, children and the immunocompromised), has potential for boosting in the absence of anti-vector immunity, and can be rapidly manufactured at low cost.","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",492577,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971507"
"30","971507",2,"EML-VAC: Multivalent replicon vaccine against Ebola, Marburg and Lassa viruses","A multivalent hemorrhagic fever vaccine based on synthetic replicating ribonucleic acid (RepRNA) would provide one of the fastest and most cost-effective approaches to stop viral outbreaks at their source. This affords significant advantages over more conventional vaccine approaches such as viral vectors, and attenuated pathogens and would be safer in individuals unable to receive live attenuated vaccines (e.g. children and the immunocompromised). This vaccine may also find utility as a booster that can be used in combination with existing vaccines (e.g. rVSV-EBOV). The fully synthetic manufacture and ease of production provides the potential to produce hundreds of thousands of doses within a matter of weeks where the individual vaccine components targeting different hemorrhagic viruses can easily be combined. This may be critical to the global response against emerging hemorrhagic viral infections, as the nature of the next outbreak cannot be reliably predicted. In this respect the proposed multivalent vaccine has potential not only to protect against multiple known hemorrhagic viruses but is also more likely to show cross-protection against novel variants that may arise. The proposed vaccine can be effectively freeze-dried providing a portable and stable product that can withstand temperature oscillations without the requirement for a cold chain. The program aims to develop a multivalent vaccine against the most common human viral hemorrhagic fevers (two Ebola viruses, Marburg virus and Lassa virus). The choice of targets is based on strong scientific evidence that gene based approaches can protect against infection in preclinical models. This Part 1 project will support vaccine characterisation, proof of concept ‘in vivo’ studies and process finalisation, such that on completion of the project everything will be in place to rapidly move into early phase I human trials upon successful Part 2 funding. Our vision is to ensure appropriate costing for low and middle income countries and to make the vaccine readily available to organizations focused on global health (e.g. MSF and WHO), as these groups have historically been the first to detect, and/or respond to an outbreak, and are therefore ideally positioned to assist in implementing any vaccination strategy. Our Target Product Profile (TPP) is a temperature stable multivalent vaccine that can elicit protective immunity against the most common human viral hemorrhagic fevers following a single immunisation across all populations (adults, children and the immunocompromised), has potential for boosting in the absence of anti-vector immunity, and can be rapidly manufactured at low cost.","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",492527,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971507"
"31","971508",2,"Exploitation of x-ray irradiated viruses for vaccine development (XVacc)","Many vaccines that have been successfully used for decades have relied on inactivating pathogenic material to render it uninfectious. One benefit of this approach will be the recipients immune system &quot;seeing&quot; the whole pathogen, so the resultant immunity generated will be primed in preparation for exposure to the live pathogen. Other benefits include immunity being generated across a wide array of antigens, rapid scalability, a known safety profile and cost effectiveness.

Purified inactivated virus (PIV) vaccines were recently developed for Zika virus, demonstrating protection in animal models including non-human primates and are now entering human clinical trials with US government and commercial support. This work demonstrates that the application of PIV as vaccine candidates remains an important tool for producing rapid and efficacious interventions against pathogenic threats. 

To date, PIV vaccines are developed using chemical or radiological methods for inactivation; both of which confer severe disadvantages. Addition of inactivation chemicals, such as formaldehyde, risks altering the conformational structure of antigenic targets and compromising the recognition of protective epitopes. Harmful chemical used during the manufacture of vaccines will also need stringent removal before being used for clinical trials adding extra processing, costs and regulatory issues to vaccine development. Whilst gamma irradiation negates the need for chemical intervention, it has a severe limitation with the technology requiring radioactive isotopes for operation. This has financial, environmental, security and moral impacts associated with the use of radiation.

X-ray irradiation offers a solution to the production of PIV vaccines by removing the need for radioactive sources to generate beams required to inactivate pathogens. This is a new and emerging technology with huge potential benefits, including being cheaper and secure for direct applications within developing countries. With the benefits of PIV vaccines being exemplified by the recently developed Zika virus vaccine, PHE would use Rift Valley Fever virus to develop a proof-of-concept approach for the use of x-ray irradiated material to generate vaccine candidates. If successful, this approach could be used across different viral pathogens and be highly relevant for responding to emerging health threats as can be rapidly applied to newly isolated viruses that might emerge and threaten human health.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",452324,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971508"
"32","971508",2,"Exploitation of x-ray irradiated viruses for vaccine development (XVacc)","Many vaccines that have been successfully used for decades have relied on inactivating pathogenic material to render it uninfectious. One benefit of this approach will be the recipients immune system &quot;seeing&quot; the whole pathogen, so the resultant immunity generated will be primed in preparation for exposure to the live pathogen. Other benefits include immunity being generated across a wide array of antigens, rapid scalability, a known safety profile and cost effectiveness.

Purified inactivated virus (PIV) vaccines were recently developed for Zika virus, demonstrating protection in animal models including non-human primates and are now entering human clinical trials with US government and commercial support. This work demonstrates that the application of PIV as vaccine candidates remains an important tool for producing rapid and efficacious interventions against pathogenic threats. 

To date, PIV vaccines are developed using chemical or radiological methods for inactivation; both of which confer severe disadvantages. Addition of inactivation chemicals, such as formaldehyde, risks altering the conformational structure of antigenic targets and compromising the recognition of protective epitopes. Harmful chemical used during the manufacture of vaccines will also need stringent removal before being used for clinical trials adding extra processing, costs and regulatory issues to vaccine development. Whilst gamma irradiation negates the need for chemical intervention, it has a severe limitation with the technology requiring radioactive isotopes for operation. This has financial, environmental, security and moral impacts associated with the use of radiation.

X-ray irradiation offers a solution to the production of PIV vaccines by removing the need for radioactive sources to generate beams required to inactivate pathogens. This is a new and emerging technology with huge potential benefits, including being cheaper and secure for direct applications within developing countries. With the benefits of PIV vaccines being exemplified by the recently developed Zika virus vaccine, PHE would use Rift Valley Fever virus to develop a proof-of-concept approach for the use of x-ray irradiated material to generate vaccine candidates. If successful, this approach could be used across different viral pathogens and be highly relevant for responding to emerging health threats as can be rapidly applied to newly isolated viruses that might emerge and threaten human health.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",452324,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971508"
"33","971509",2,"A Novel Diagnostic for anti-Zika Antibodies to Inform Deployment of Zika Vaccines","A NOVEL &quot;PREGNANCY-TEST-LIKE&quot; DIAGNOSTIC FOR ZIKA VIRUS THAT WILL ALLOW THE INTELLIGENT DEVELOPMENT AND EFFECTIVE USE OF ZIKA VACCINES

The Zika epidemic is a global problem with profound consequences for nations and families that will take decades to unfold. While there is an urgent need for a new vaccine against Zika, there is a similar urgency to accurately monitor, map and contain outbreaks of Zika (which is easily confused, symptom-wise, with other infections). Likewise it will be important to deploy precious vaccine resources effectively in the field in resource-limited countries, making sure the vaccine is deployed to 'current' outbreak-areas as a priority, as their geography changes over time, and saving health-care costs on unecessary use of vaccine. Also, it is important to monitor the effectiveness and safety of development/deployment of novel vaccines and to understand the risks of vaccine development against this 'new' virus, which is only one 'cog' in a rapidly evolving ecosystem of related viruses. Antibodies (resulting from prior infections with related viruses) already present in the blood of patients experiencing Zika virus infection may influence the course of the disease or the result of Zika vaccination (e.g. whether the naturally-encoutnered Zika virus crosses the placenta and damages the foetus, or whether vaccine strains might do the same thing), and antibodies generated by Zika vaccination may influence the occurrence of haemorrhagic fever upon encounter with dengue (a related virus that co-circulates with Zika). Current diagnostic practice is not adequate to properly enable the intelligent deployment of vaccines because it is based in central diagnostic labs that require the transport of blood samples from diverse, sometimes remote, areas of endemic countries, which is expensive and inefficient, and which may not be possible in many instances due to lack of the necessary refrigerated transport infrasctructure. What is needed to enable effective monitoring and safe development of Zika vaccines is a cheap 'point-of-care' diagnostic test, i.e. a test that can be run without the need for clean water, electricity or equipment - e.g. like a DIY pregnancy test, that can be operated in the home or in a Doctor's surgery. This is the subject of the current project. The new test will help define which subjects are eligible to receive Zika vaccination, maximising the safety and effectiveness of its deployment. It will also help define whether a subject has responded adequately to the vaccine (i.e. reached a 'to be determined' protective level of Zika-specific antibodies) or whether they may require a further dose (a factor that may vary in differing endemic territories, depending on prior exposure to related viruses). In order to deliver the test Excivion has fielded a world-class team of experts with the necessary skills in virology/immunology and in diagnostics development and evaluation in an endemic public-health setting. The project takes advantage of an unique set of viral proteins developed (by the applicant company) under SBRI funding which promise antibody-based diagnostics of unparalleled specificity (as well as safer vaccines).","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",5e+05,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971509"
"34","971509",2,"A Novel Diagnostic for anti-Zika Antibodies to Inform Deployment of Zika Vaccines","A NOVEL &quot;PREGNANCY-TEST-LIKE&quot; DIAGNOSTIC FOR ZIKA VIRUS THAT WILL ALLOW THE INTELLIGENT DEVELOPMENT AND EFFECTIVE USE OF ZIKA VACCINES

The Zika epidemic is a global problem with profound consequences for nations and families that will take decades to unfold. While there is an urgent need for a new vaccine against Zika, there is a similar urgency to accurately monitor, map and contain outbreaks of Zika (which is easily confused, symptom-wise, with other infections). Likewise it will be important to deploy precious vaccine resources effectively in the field in resource-limited countries, making sure the vaccine is deployed to 'current' outbreak-areas as a priority, as their geography changes over time, and saving health-care costs on unecessary use of vaccine. Also, it is important to monitor the effectiveness and safety of development/deployment of novel vaccines and to understand the risks of vaccine development against this 'new' virus, which is only one 'cog' in a rapidly evolving ecosystem of related viruses. Antibodies (resulting from prior infections with related viruses) already present in the blood of patients experiencing Zika virus infection may influence the course of the disease or the result of Zika vaccination (e.g. whether the naturally-encoutnered Zika virus crosses the placenta and damages the foetus, or whether vaccine strains might do the same thing), and antibodies generated by Zika vaccination may influence the occurrence of haemorrhagic fever upon encounter with dengue (a related virus that co-circulates with Zika). Current diagnostic practice is not adequate to properly enable the intelligent deployment of vaccines because it is based in central diagnostic labs that require the transport of blood samples from diverse, sometimes remote, areas of endemic countries, which is expensive and inefficient, and which may not be possible in many instances due to lack of the necessary refrigerated transport infrasctructure. What is needed to enable effective monitoring and safe development of Zika vaccines is a cheap 'point-of-care' diagnostic test, i.e. a test that can be run without the need for clean water, electricity or equipment - e.g. like a DIY pregnancy test, that can be operated in the home or in a Doctor's surgery. This is the subject of the current project. The new test will help define which subjects are eligible to receive Zika vaccination, maximising the safety and effectiveness of its deployment. It will also help define whether a subject has responded adequately to the vaccine (i.e. reached a 'to be determined' protective level of Zika-specific antibodies) or whether they may require a further dose (a factor that may vary in differing endemic territories, depending on prior exposure to related viruses). In order to deliver the test Excivion has fielded a world-class team of experts with the necessary skills in virology/immunology and in diagnostics development and evaluation in an endemic public-health setting. The project takes advantage of an unique set of viral proteins developed (by the applicant company) under SBRI funding which promise antibody-based diagnostics of unparalleled specificity (as well as safer vaccines).","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",5e+05,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971509"
"35","971510",2,"Novel multivalent vaccines against haemorrhagic fevers","Recent outbreaks of Ebola, MERS and Zika viruses have highlighted the lack of global preparedness and viable therapeutic solutions for known outbreak pathogens. To prepare for the control of future outbreaks, vaccine candidates against 'priority pathogens', as identified by the UK vaccines network and other organisations, should be taken forward into clinical development and tested for safety, immunogenicity and, wherever possible, efficacy. To be viable, new vaccine platforms will need to be 1) immunologically effective over time, 2) reliably deployable, and 3) cost effective. Monovalent vaccines, administered singularly against individual viruses, will be prohibitively expensive to develop for all ‘priority pathogens’ and burdensome to deploy in the prophylactic setting. 

Here, we propose to develop efficacious and cost-effective multivalent vaccines against several lethal haemorrhagic fever-causing viruses endemic in Africa, including Filoviruseses (Ebolaviruses &amp; Marburg virus) and Arenaviruses (Lassa virus). Multivalent vaccines will allow the development and production outlays to be greatly reduced, and will increase the probability that vaccines against most, rather than a select few, pathogens will be available. 

Our pre-developed core vaccine platforms (viral vectors) have proven capability of expressing multiple antigens and inducing durable immune responses in other infectious disease settings. For each of the multivalent vaccines against outbreak pathogens that we develop, preclinical testing will be conducted to identify the vaccines which induce ‘best–in-class’ immune responses and are most suitable for clinical manufacture (GMP) and field use. By assessing several combinations of different antigens in two different viral vector platforms, we will optimise the chances of developing vaccination regimens suitable for both prophylactic and outbreak response settings. 

At the end of this work, we will have developed, tested and produced pre-GMP stocks as scalable vaccine solutions for deployment against Filoviruses and an Arenavirus and will have developed scalable platform modalities that can be used in other outbreak scenarios.","2017-04-01","2018-05-31",483455,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971510"
"36","971510",2,"Novel multivalent vaccines against haemorrhagic fevers","Recent outbreaks of Ebola, MERS and Zika viruses have highlighted the lack of global preparedness and viable therapeutic solutions for known outbreak pathogens. To prepare for the control of future outbreaks, vaccine candidates against 'priority pathogens', as identified by the UK vaccines network and other organisations, should be taken forward into clinical development and tested for safety, immunogenicity and, wherever possible, efficacy. To be viable, new vaccine platforms will need to be 1) immunologically effective over time, 2) reliably deployable, and 3) cost effective. Monovalent vaccines, administered singularly against individual viruses, will be prohibitively expensive to develop for all ‘priority pathogens’ and burdensome to deploy in the prophylactic setting. 

Here, we propose to develop efficacious and cost-effective multivalent vaccines against several lethal haemorrhagic fever-causing viruses endemic in Africa, including Filoviruseses (Ebolaviruses &amp; Marburg virus) and Arenaviruses (Lassa virus). Multivalent vaccines will allow the development and production outlays to be greatly reduced, and will increase the probability that vaccines against most, rather than a select few, pathogens will be available. 

Our pre-developed core vaccine platforms (viral vectors) have proven capability of expressing multiple antigens and inducing durable immune responses in other infectious disease settings. For each of the multivalent vaccines against outbreak pathogens that we develop, preclinical testing will be conducted to identify the vaccines which induce ‘best–in-class’ immune responses and are most suitable for clinical manufacture (GMP) and field use. By assessing several combinations of different antigens in two different viral vector platforms, we will optimise the chances of developing vaccination regimens suitable for both prophylactic and outbreak response settings. 

At the end of this work, we will have developed, tested and produced pre-GMP stocks as scalable vaccine solutions for deployment against Filoviruses and an Arenavirus and will have developed scalable platform modalities that can be used in other outbreak scenarios.","2017-04-01","2018-05-31",483455,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971510"
"37","971511",2,"Trivalent Lassa, Ebola and Marburg viral vaccine (Tri-LEMvac)","African haemorrhagic fever viruses have a significant impact on human health in low income countries and developing economies (Heeney, J Internal Med, 2006). Lassa fever is endemic to Western Africa with estimates ranging between 300,000 to a million infections, with 5,000 deaths per year. It’s overlapping geographic distribution with other Viral Haemorrhagic Fevers (VHFs) caused by Filoviruses such as Ebola virus (EBOV), complicated the early clinical diagnosis of Ebola virus disease in the 2014/2015 West African outbreak. A combined Old World Arenavirus and Filovirus vaccine eliciting protection against Lassa Fever virus (LASV), Ebola (EBOV) and Marburg (MARV) viruses, the most important haemorrhagic fevers in West and Central Africa, would be of great benefit in the control of spread of these notorious pathogens. Currently there are no licensed vaccines for these infections. A single vaccine to protect against all three of these regionally important VHFs that was economic, easy to produce, readily deployable and temperature stable in the absence of continuous cold chain storage would be highly desirable. 
The Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) vaccine platform is a non-replicating strain third generation smallpox vaccine and one of the most advanced recombinant poxviral vaccine vectors in human clinical trials (Cottingham &amp; Carroll, Vaccine, 2013). MVA is a robust vector system capable of co-expressing up to four transgenes facilitating potent promoters and stable insertion sites (Orubu et al, Pone, 2012). We will bring synergistic new platform technologies together from EVAC and LassaVacc (Innovate UK). Using EVAC’s DIOS synthetic immune optimised vaccine inserts to give the broadest possible vaccine protection, together with LassaVacc's MVA based LASV (NP/GPC T &amp; B-cell antigens) we will develop a single trivalent vaccine (Tri-LEMvac) that will generate combined vaccine efficacy against future outbreaks of variants of the haemorrhagic fever Lassa, Ebola and Marburg viruses.

Towards this goal we propose two stages: 
Stage 1) Proof of concept (this application). Within 12 months, we will demonstrate proof of concept by constructing trivalent MVAs expressing conserved Lassa, Ebola and Marburg antigen inserts in a single MVA, confirming optimal expression, demonstrating immunogenicity in small animals and efficacy by live virus challenges with these pathogens. MVA is a clinically trialled vaccine vector which we will use to compare improvements in immune responses, the breadth of protection, durability and efficacy. This new trivalent LEMvac MVA vaccine will allow direct comparison in head to head clinical trials in stage 2. 
Stage 2) follow-up proposal; refine preclinical work, including GLP manufacturing toxicology/manufacturing. To perform first in human phase I trials of Tri-LEMvac to establish dose, durability of one shot versus prime boost and safety.","2017-04-01","2018-05-31",695639,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971511"
"38","971511",2,"Trivalent Lassa, Ebola and Marburg viral vaccine (Tri-LEMvac)","African haemorrhagic fever viruses have a significant impact on human health in low income countries and developing economies (Heeney, J Internal Med, 2006). Lassa fever is endemic to Western Africa with estimates ranging between 300,000 to a million infections, with 5,000 deaths per year. It’s overlapping geographic distribution with other Viral Haemorrhagic Fevers (VHFs) caused by Filoviruses such as Ebola virus (EBOV), complicated the early clinical diagnosis of Ebola virus disease in the 2014/2015 West African outbreak. A combined Old World Arenavirus and Filovirus vaccine eliciting protection against Lassa Fever virus (LASV), Ebola (EBOV) and Marburg (MARV) viruses, the most important haemorrhagic fevers in West and Central Africa, would be of great benefit in the control of spread of these notorious pathogens. Currently there are no licensed vaccines for these infections. A single vaccine to protect against all three of these regionally important VHFs that was economic, easy to produce, readily deployable and temperature stable in the absence of continuous cold chain storage would be highly desirable. 
The Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) vaccine platform is a non-replicating strain third generation smallpox vaccine and one of the most advanced recombinant poxviral vaccine vectors in human clinical trials (Cottingham &amp; Carroll, Vaccine, 2013). MVA is a robust vector system capable of co-expressing up to four transgenes facilitating potent promoters and stable insertion sites (Orubu et al, Pone, 2012). We will bring synergistic new platform technologies together from EVAC and LassaVacc (Innovate UK). Using EVAC’s DIOS synthetic immune optimised vaccine inserts to give the broadest possible vaccine protection, together with LassaVacc's MVA based LASV (NP/GPC T &amp; B-cell antigens) we will develop a single trivalent vaccine (Tri-LEMvac) that will generate combined vaccine efficacy against future outbreaks of variants of the haemorrhagic fever Lassa, Ebola and Marburg viruses.

Towards this goal we propose two stages: 
Stage 1) Proof of concept (this application). Within 12 months, we will demonstrate proof of concept by constructing trivalent MVAs expressing conserved Lassa, Ebola and Marburg antigen inserts in a single MVA, confirming optimal expression, demonstrating immunogenicity in small animals and efficacy by live virus challenges with these pathogens. MVA is a clinically trialled vaccine vector which we will use to compare improvements in immune responses, the breadth of protection, durability and efficacy. This new trivalent LEMvac MVA vaccine will allow direct comparison in head to head clinical trials in stage 2. 
Stage 2) follow-up proposal; refine preclinical work, including GLP manufacturing toxicology/manufacturing. To perform first in human phase I trials of Tri-LEMvac to establish dose, durability of one shot versus prime boost and safety.","2017-04-01","2018-05-31",695639,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971511"
"39","971512",2,"Validation and cGMP manufacture of a Zika and Multivalent Filovirus vaccine","From mosquito borne viruses such as Zika, to human-to-human transmitted viruses such as Ebola, the risk of infectious disease remains a true medical challenge for the world. Developing countries are disproportionately affected; nearly all the victims in the recent Ebola epidemic lived in low income African countries while Zika continues to spread to the regions that do not have the resources available to deal with the lifelong disability associated with the foetal effects of infection. Such outbreaks occur rapidly and unexpectedly where a viable vaccine, the gold standard of defence against viral infectious disease, is not available. This highlights the urgent need for vaccines that can be developed quickly and on-demand and which are also affordable and practical in the low resource environments where they are required. Due to the high production costs, high manufacturing costs, requirement of cold and variable efficacy; existing vaccine technologies do not fit this need.
 Emergex has developed a novel synthetic vaccine platform technology, which it will apply to the generation of a vaccine against Zika and a multitarget vaccine against all strains of Ebola and Marburg . This involves the addition of viral components to a gold nanoparticle carrier system, resulting in ultra-small 100% synthetic vaccine agents. 
These synthetic vaccines that are highly stable, eliminating the need for cold chain and allowing an extensive shelf life. The synthetic nature also means the production process is fast, cheap and highly scalable: for our vaccines, we estimate that with current facilities 1 million doses could be produced in a day at cost of goods and manufacture of $0.109 per dose. This contrasts with the most advanced experimental Ebola vaccine, cAd3-EBO Z, an attenuated live vaccine generated in cell lines, which is estimated to have a production capacity of 100,000 to 500,000 doses over 9 months at a cost of $50-$250 per dose. With 70 million people in “at-risk” Ebola regions, where other technologies would fall short, the Emergex technology could provide an affordable and practical solution to meet the dose demand required to incur population immunity. 
 The recent Zika outbreak can be defined as a foetal-maternal health issue. Evidence has confirmed a link between the Zika infections in pregnant mothers and birth defects (i.e. microcephaly ~ 1% incidence) of the foetus in utero. It is also now proposed that in 20% of cases maternal Zika can lead to some form of neurologic damage. This disproprotionately effects developing countres with limited resources to deal with lifelong disability. Since the mother cannot pass immunity to her child until late in pregnancy and there will always be a brief period where the foetus is exposed to infection, vaccination of the mother alone is not sufficient and vaccination of the feotus is required. The high safety profile and small size of our vaccines means we believe we are the only technology that is suited to in-utero vaccination 
 The impact of infectious disease epidemics on emerging economies is enough to reverse or impede decades of development, meaning the effects reverberate for years to come. The importance of novel vaccine technologies that are suited to where and when they are needed has never been more evident","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",499825,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971512"
"40","971512",2,"Validation and cGMP manufacture of a Zika and Multivalent Filovirus vaccine","From mosquito borne viruses such as Zika, to human-to-human transmitted viruses such as Ebola, the risk of infectious disease remains a true medical challenge for the world. Developing countries are disproportionately affected; nearly all the victims in the recent Ebola epidemic lived in low income African countries while Zika continues to spread to the regions that do not have the resources available to deal with the lifelong disability associated with the foetal effects of infection. Such outbreaks occur rapidly and unexpectedly where a viable vaccine, the gold standard of defence against viral infectious disease, is not available. This highlights the urgent need for vaccines that can be developed quickly and on-demand and which are also affordable and practical in the low resource environments where they are required. Due to the high production costs, high manufacturing costs, requirement of cold and variable efficacy; existing vaccine technologies do not fit this need.
 Emergex has developed a novel synthetic vaccine platform technology, which it will apply to the generation of a vaccine against Zika and a multitarget vaccine against all strains of Ebola and Marburg . This involves the addition of viral components to a gold nanoparticle carrier system, resulting in ultra-small 100% synthetic vaccine agents. 
These synthetic vaccines that are highly stable, eliminating the need for cold chain and allowing an extensive shelf life. The synthetic nature also means the production process is fast, cheap and highly scalable: for our vaccines, we estimate that with current facilities 1 million doses could be produced in a day at cost of goods and manufacture of $0.109 per dose. This contrasts with the most advanced experimental Ebola vaccine, cAd3-EBO Z, an attenuated live vaccine generated in cell lines, which is estimated to have a production capacity of 100,000 to 500,000 doses over 9 months at a cost of $50-$250 per dose. With 70 million people in “at-risk” Ebola regions, where other technologies would fall short, the Emergex technology could provide an affordable and practical solution to meet the dose demand required to incur population immunity. 
 The recent Zika outbreak can be defined as a foetal-maternal health issue. Evidence has confirmed a link between the Zika infections in pregnant mothers and birth defects (i.e. microcephaly ~ 1% incidence) of the foetus in utero. It is also now proposed that in 20% of cases maternal Zika can lead to some form of neurologic damage. This disproprotionately effects developing countres with limited resources to deal with lifelong disability. Since the mother cannot pass immunity to her child until late in pregnancy and there will always be a brief period where the foetus is exposed to infection, vaccination of the mother alone is not sufficient and vaccination of the feotus is required. The high safety profile and small size of our vaccines means we believe we are the only technology that is suited to in-utero vaccination 
 The impact of infectious disease epidemics on emerging economies is enough to reverse or impede decades of development, meaning the effects reverberate for years to come. The importance of novel vaccine technologies that are suited to where and when they are needed has never been more evident","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",499825,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971512"
"41","971513",2,"Project Title: Development of Virus-Like Particles as vaccines against emerging viral diseases","&quot;Development of Virus-Like Particles as vaccines against emerging viral diseases&quot; Recent decades have seen changes in the mobility of arthropod vectors, driven by global warming. This has resulted in the spread of several diseases from their previously restricted ranges into larger na&iuml;ve human and animal populations, resulting in severe epidemics. In addition, modern global transport networks has led to highly mobile human populations, who could transport a virulent infection around the globe within days. Recent outbreaks such as Zika and Ebola have highlighted this potential threat. To cope with new outbreaks, effective vaccines are required that are cheap to produce and can be deployed in regions of low technological sophistication and financial resources. However, the limited occurrence and geographic distribution of such diseases on a day-to-day basis have thus far precluded the development of such vaccines, on the basis of simple economics. Many of the viral agents of these emerging diseases share common characteristics in their structures and lifecycles, notably the production of complex capsid and envelope structures that house the viral genomes. Virus-like particles (VLPs) are biological structures that comprise the outer shell of a virus but without the viral genome. In certain circumstances, VLPs can be produced in high quantities by expressing the structural components of a virus in a suitable host cell, where they can assemble into a form that closely mimics the native virus. Such VLPs can be highly immunogenic and very effective vaccines as they present all the antigenic components of the virus to the immune system, in a form that is identical to the real virus. Unlike killed or attenuated virus preparations, there is no risk of live virus contaminating the material or of genetic reversions giving rise to virulent virus de novo. Many expression systems struggle to fold and assemble the viral proteins or to provide the required post-translational processing and maturation functions that are necessary to assemble a fully mature VLP. Even in expression systems where the processing is performed correctly, yields are often very low. Plant cells are highly competent at expressing, folding and assembling VLPs and often with high efficiency. This group have successfully produced VLPs of several significant pathogens, including Bluetongue virus and poliovirus. In the commercial sector, Medicago Inc. (Quebec, Canada) and Caliber Biotherapeutics (Austin, US) have been able to produce influenza VLPs, at scale, in very short timescales (12M doses in 30 days; 50M doses in 90 days, respectively) from genome sequence alone using transient plant expressions systems. Plant transient expression (PTE) facilities are reported to be less costly to build and operate than traditional fermentation or cell culture facilities, making them ideal to deploy in low-income economies or in quick-response, surge manufacturing situations. This project aims to develop new VLP vaccine constructs from two of the most challenging viral targets that are considered a high-priority, namely Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) and Rift Valley Fever virus (RVFV). The construct(s) will be configured for PTE and the ultimate aim is to deliver VLP vaccine products, that are both inexpensive to manufacture and capable of rapid surge production.","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",490375,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971513"
"42","971513",2,"Project Title: Development of Virus-Like Particles as vaccines against emerging viral diseases","&quot;Development of Virus-Like Particles as vaccines against emerging viral diseases&quot; Recent decades have seen changes in the mobility of arthropod vectors, driven by global warming. This has resulted in the spread of several diseases from their previously restricted ranges into larger na&iuml;ve human and animal populations, resulting in severe epidemics. In addition, modern global transport networks has led to highly mobile human populations, who could transport a virulent infection around the globe within days. Recent outbreaks such as Zika and Ebola have highlighted this potential threat. To cope with new outbreaks, effective vaccines are required that are cheap to produce and can be deployed in regions of low technological sophistication and financial resources. However, the limited occurrence and geographic distribution of such diseases on a day-to-day basis have thus far precluded the development of such vaccines, on the basis of simple economics. Many of the viral agents of these emerging diseases share common characteristics in their structures and lifecycles, notably the production of complex capsid and envelope structures that house the viral genomes. Virus-like particles (VLPs) are biological structures that comprise the outer shell of a virus but without the viral genome. In certain circumstances, VLPs can be produced in high quantities by expressing the structural components of a virus in a suitable host cell, where they can assemble into a form that closely mimics the native virus. Such VLPs can be highly immunogenic and very effective vaccines as they present all the antigenic components of the virus to the immune system, in a form that is identical to the real virus. Unlike killed or attenuated virus preparations, there is no risk of live virus contaminating the material or of genetic reversions giving rise to virulent virus de novo. Many expression systems struggle to fold and assemble the viral proteins or to provide the required post-translational processing and maturation functions that are necessary to assemble a fully mature VLP. Even in expression systems where the processing is performed correctly, yields are often very low. Plant cells are highly competent at expressing, folding and assembling VLPs and often with high efficiency. This group have successfully produced VLPs of several significant pathogens, including Bluetongue virus and poliovirus. In the commercial sector, Medicago Inc. (Quebec, Canada) and Caliber Biotherapeutics (Austin, US) have been able to produce influenza VLPs, at scale, in very short timescales (12M doses in 30 days; 50M doses in 90 days, respectively) from genome sequence alone using transient plant expressions systems. Plant transient expression (PTE) facilities are reported to be less costly to build and operate than traditional fermentation or cell culture facilities, making them ideal to deploy in low-income economies or in quick-response, surge manufacturing situations. This project aims to develop new VLP vaccine constructs from two of the most challenging viral targets that are considered a high-priority, namely Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) and Rift Valley Fever virus (RVFV). The construct(s) will be configured for PTE and the ultimate aim is to deliver VLP vaccine products, that are both inexpensive to manufacture and capable of rapid surge production.","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",490375,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971513"
"43","971514",2,"Multivalent Attenuated Vaccine against Viral and Bacterial Zoonoses in Ruminants","BACKGROUND: Infected animals and animal products are the most common route by which highly pathogenic microbes enter the human population. The list of these zoonotic (transmitted from animals to humans) microbes is extensive, but includes such viruses as Ebola and Lassa haemorrhagic viruses, SARS, MERS, and Rift Valley Fever virus (RVFV); and the bacterial causes of plague (Yersinia pestis) and Q fever (Coxiella burnetii, CB). The rate at which these microbes is entering the human population is on the increase, but unfortunately our ability to control their emergence remains severely limited. This problem is further complicated by the emergence of these microbes most commonly occurring in under-resourced, low-and middle-income countries (LMICs). The realization of this capacity gap underpins this current UK Vaccine Network Competition Brief. APPROACH: Vaccination of animal populations involved in zoonotic transmission is one effective means of reducing pathogen emergence into the human population. The aim of the current project is to construct a single attenuated (reduced virulence*) multivalent vaccine targeting both RVFV and CB. It takes advantage of the near complete overlap of RVFV and CB in terms of their disease characteristics, including: i) animals they infect (ruminants: cattle, sheep, goats and camels), ii) geographic distribution, iii) at-risk human populations (farm and abbatoir workers, and veterinarians), iv) conditions under which they transmit zoonotically to humans, and v) symptomology both in humans and in animals (both microbes associated with abortion storms in goats and sheep). We will use bovine herpesvirus-4 (BoHV-4) as the platform for this vaccine, which has been shown to create an immune response in all common domestic ruminant animals tested. The BoHV-4-based vaccine will be attenuated by removal of a region of the virus called ORF73. Deletion of ORF73 results in the vaccine only being able to replicate for a transient, short period of time in animals. This further increases the safety of the vaccine, but does not affect its ability to induce a good immune response (this will also be confirmed during the 12 month project). Such attenuation is 'conditional' in that it prevents long-term replication in the animal, but does not affect ease/low cost of vaccine manufacture. A conditionally-attenuated BoHV-4 targeting both RVFV and CB is therefore suited for production and use in LMICs endemic for RVFV and Q fever. It will be safe, inexpensive to produce and able to create an immune response in the domestic ruminant animals involved in transmission of RVFV and CB to humans. It also has the potential for providing long-lasting immunity after only a single dose, further reducing vaccination costs. Finally, developing a vaccine for the animal populations involved in transmission, rather than for humans, considerably reduces the time to vaccine commercialization and use in the field due to the lower threshold of requirements for approval of animal compared to human vaccines. [*As even the wild-type version of BoHV-4 is not reproducibly associated with disease, deletion of ORF73 of BoHV-4 is included to provide an additional tier of safety].","2017-04-01","2018-04-30",408589,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971514"
"44","971514",2,"Multivalent Attenuated Vaccine against Viral and Bacterial Zoonoses in Ruminants","BACKGROUND: Infected animals and animal products are the most common route by which highly pathogenic microbes enter the human population. The list of these zoonotic (transmitted from animals to humans) microbes is extensive, but includes such viruses as Ebola and Lassa haemorrhagic viruses, SARS, MERS, and Rift Valley Fever virus (RVFV); and the bacterial causes of plague (Yersinia pestis) and Q fever (Coxiella burnetii, CB). The rate at which these microbes is entering the human population is on the increase, but unfortunately our ability to control their emergence remains severely limited. This problem is further complicated by the emergence of these microbes most commonly occurring in under-resourced, low-and middle-income countries (LMICs). The realization of this capacity gap underpins this current UK Vaccine Network Competition Brief. APPROACH: Vaccination of animal populations involved in zoonotic transmission is one effective means of reducing pathogen emergence into the human population. The aim of the current project is to construct a single attenuated (reduced virulence*) multivalent vaccine targeting both RVFV and CB. It takes advantage of the near complete overlap of RVFV and CB in terms of their disease characteristics, including: i) animals they infect (ruminants: cattle, sheep, goats and camels), ii) geographic distribution, iii) at-risk human populations (farm and abbatoir workers, and veterinarians), iv) conditions under which they transmit zoonotically to humans, and v) symptomology both in humans and in animals (both microbes associated with abortion storms in goats and sheep). We will use bovine herpesvirus-4 (BoHV-4) as the platform for this vaccine, which has been shown to create an immune response in all common domestic ruminant animals tested. The BoHV-4-based vaccine will be attenuated by removal of a region of the virus called ORF73. Deletion of ORF73 results in the vaccine only being able to replicate for a transient, short period of time in animals. This further increases the safety of the vaccine, but does not affect its ability to induce a good immune response (this will also be confirmed during the 12 month project). Such attenuation is 'conditional' in that it prevents long-term replication in the animal, but does not affect ease/low cost of vaccine manufacture. A conditionally-attenuated BoHV-4 targeting both RVFV and CB is therefore suited for production and use in LMICs endemic for RVFV and Q fever. It will be safe, inexpensive to produce and able to create an immune response in the domestic ruminant animals involved in transmission of RVFV and CB to humans. It also has the potential for providing long-lasting immunity after only a single dose, further reducing vaccination costs. Finally, developing a vaccine for the animal populations involved in transmission, rather than for humans, considerably reduces the time to vaccine commercialization and use in the field due to the lower threshold of requirements for approval of animal compared to human vaccines. [*As even the wild-type version of BoHV-4 is not reproducibly associated with disease, deletion of ORF73 of BoHV-4 is included to provide an additional tier of safety].","2017-04-01","2018-04-30",408589,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971514"
"45","971515",2,"Development of a novel vaccine to protect against Q fever epidemics","The aim of this project is to create an innovative vaccine against Q fever, caused by the bacterium Coxiella burnetii. We propose to use a potent vaccine delivery technology, highly suited to outbreak situations in low-income countries, and never tried for this disease. Q fever is highly contagious, often transmitted to humans by infected livestock. It is a global health concern, classified a potential outbreak pathogens by the UK government, the CDC and WHO for several reasons: 1. It causes a range of disease from acute to potentially fatal chronic infection, and is particularly dangerous in pregnancy. 2. Extensive and costly antibiotic use may be required during outbreaks: while infections may be self-limited, antimicrobial therapy is effective in shortening illness duration and severity, but acute illness requires 14 days treatment. 3. Chronic Q fever is very difficult to treat, results in frequent relapses, causes severe symptoms and can be fatal despite treatment. 4. The symptoms are non-specific and thus Q fever is difficult to diagnose (there is no reliable diagnostic test). 5. Q fever has a worldwide distribution, particularly affecting low-income countries. The number of reported cases is likely an underestimation. In the US, around 3% of healthy adults, 10-20% of persons in high-risk occupations have been exposed. A large epidemic occurred recently in the Netherlands (2007 to 2010) that led to several deaths and long-term illnesses. 6. The bacterium is unusually resistant to drying and to heat, it can survive for years, and extremely low infectious doses (down to a single bacterium) are sufficient to cause infection. It is therefore also a potential bioweapon. The inactivated whole cell vaccine licenced in Australia induces severe adverse effects, requires pre-vaccination screening and thus is not suitable for extensive use, particularly in low-income countries and for outbreaks. The protective efficacy of conventional vaccines based on proteins in adjuvant is very limited, likely due to the weakness of this formulation in inducing the cellular immune responses that have been linked to resolution of Q fever infection. In this context, our proposed solution is to use viral vectors as a vaccine delivery platform. This technology is based on harmless replication-incompetent viruses, currently developed against numerous infectious diseases (Ebola, malaria, HIV…), but not yet investigated for Q fever. This technology is highly suitable when cellular immune responses are required for protection in addition to antibody responses, as it can induce both at remarkably high levels. This technology is suited to outbreaks in low-income countries: all vaccines developed for the recent Ebola outbreak were based on viral vectors. Importantly, this technology is perfectly suited to the challenge of antigen selection for Q fever vaccines: while the focus of the protective immune response is currently debated, the vectored technology allows the formulation and testing of multiple antigen targets and combinations, in a very short time frame, directly in the formulation that can progress to clinic. We will use Q fever proteins known to elicit immune responses and formulate them into our clinically relevant viral vaccine vectors. We will investigate the immune responses and levels of protection induced by the novel vaccines, and identify the most potent candidate. If successful, this project will provide a strong case for testing of this new Q fever vaccine in people.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",469049,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971515"
"46","971515",2,"Development of a novel vaccine to protect against Q fever epidemics","The aim of this project is to create an innovative vaccine against Q fever, caused by the bacterium Coxiella burnetii. We propose to use a potent vaccine delivery technology, highly suited to outbreak situations in low-income countries, and never tried for this disease. Q fever is highly contagious, often transmitted to humans by infected livestock. It is a global health concern, classified a potential outbreak pathogens by the UK government, the CDC and WHO for several reasons: 1. It causes a range of disease from acute to potentially fatal chronic infection, and is particularly dangerous in pregnancy. 2. Extensive and costly antibiotic use may be required during outbreaks: while infections may be self-limited, antimicrobial therapy is effective in shortening illness duration and severity, but acute illness requires 14 days treatment. 3. Chronic Q fever is very difficult to treat, results in frequent relapses, causes severe symptoms and can be fatal despite treatment. 4. The symptoms are non-specific and thus Q fever is difficult to diagnose (there is no reliable diagnostic test). 5. Q fever has a worldwide distribution, particularly affecting low-income countries. The number of reported cases is likely an underestimation. In the US, around 3% of healthy adults, 10-20% of persons in high-risk occupations have been exposed. A large epidemic occurred recently in the Netherlands (2007 to 2010) that led to several deaths and long-term illnesses. 6. The bacterium is unusually resistant to drying and to heat, it can survive for years, and extremely low infectious doses (down to a single bacterium) are sufficient to cause infection. It is therefore also a potential bioweapon. The inactivated whole cell vaccine licenced in Australia induces severe adverse effects, requires pre-vaccination screening and thus is not suitable for extensive use, particularly in low-income countries and for outbreaks. The protective efficacy of conventional vaccines based on proteins in adjuvant is very limited, likely due to the weakness of this formulation in inducing the cellular immune responses that have been linked to resolution of Q fever infection. In this context, our proposed solution is to use viral vectors as a vaccine delivery platform. This technology is based on harmless replication-incompetent viruses, currently developed against numerous infectious diseases (Ebola, malaria, HIV…), but not yet investigated for Q fever. This technology is highly suitable when cellular immune responses are required for protection in addition to antibody responses, as it can induce both at remarkably high levels. This technology is suited to outbreaks in low-income countries: all vaccines developed for the recent Ebola outbreak were based on viral vectors. Importantly, this technology is perfectly suited to the challenge of antigen selection for Q fever vaccines: while the focus of the protective immune response is currently debated, the vectored technology allows the formulation and testing of multiple antigen targets and combinations, in a very short time frame, directly in the formulation that can progress to clinic. We will use Q fever proteins known to elicit immune responses and formulate them into our clinically relevant viral vaccine vectors. We will investigate the immune responses and levels of protection induced by the novel vaccines, and identify the most potent candidate. If successful, this project will provide a strong case for testing of this new Q fever vaccine in people.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",469049,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971515"
"47","971516",2,"A novel livestock vaccination platform to prevent zoonotic emerging infections","TITLE: A novel livestock vaccination platform to prevent zoonotic emerging infections Emerging and epidemic infections are frequently passed to humans through their interactions with livestock. Examples include infection with Coxiella burnetii (causing Q fever), Rift Valley Fever virus (RVFV) and Crimean Congo Haemorrhagic fever (CCHF) virus, each of which is sustained and sometimes amplified in animals. One approach to limit the risk of transmission is to vaccinate animals against infection, but this often involves the use of inactivated pathogens, which are expensive and difficult to produce and generate immune responses that are impossible to distinguish from natural infection. Vaccination can also be challenging in resource-poor settings, where effective veterinary management is lacking. Furthermore, emerging infections can evolve rapidly, such that the ability to reengineer or reformulate vaccines is necessary to retain their effectiveness. There is an urgent need for stable systems that can deliver multivalent antigens in cattle to limit human exposure. We have developed a novel, non-pathogenic protozoan parasite as a flexible and safe vaccine delivery vehicle that is well suited to deployment in low and middle income countries (LMIC). The parasite is the single-celled organism Trypanosoma theileri, which is found naturally in almost all cattle worldwide. This parasite can be easily and rapidly engineered to express heterologous antigens using existing modularised expression constructs that can be delivered systemically into recipients over a sustained period. Using an exemplar antigen from Babesia divergens (a cattle pathogen), we showed previously that vaccination using this system results in low-level prolonged immune stimulation to the delivered antigen at levels shown to generate protective immune responses to the target antigen. In the planned work, we will generate T. theileri lines expressing several antigens from the zoonotic threats, Coxiella, RVFV and CCHFV, and confirm their effective protein production using antibodies raised to recombinant proteins of each target. The vaccine vehicle will then be inoculated into cattle using T. theileri populations expressing one or more antigens (singly or in combination) and maintained over 12 weeks. Thereafter, immune responses generated to the expressed antigens will be measured to assess efficacy of immunisation in the context of single or multivalent delivery. We have shown previously that a single inoculation of the delivery vehicle is sufficient to establish and maintain persistence of the vehicle such that a ‘one-dose’ application suitable in LMIC is practical. The work here will demonstrate the potential for this flexible, sustained delivery system to protect cattle against emerging zoonotic infections, thus providing a barrier to epidemic outbreaks resulting from frequent human-animal contact in at-risk populations.","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",327239,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971516"
"48","971516",2,"A novel livestock vaccination platform to prevent zoonotic emerging infections","TITLE: A novel livestock vaccination platform to prevent zoonotic emerging infections Emerging and epidemic infections are frequently passed to humans through their interactions with livestock. Examples include infection with Coxiella burnetii (causing Q fever), Rift Valley Fever virus (RVFV) and Crimean Congo Haemorrhagic fever (CCHF) virus, each of which is sustained and sometimes amplified in animals. One approach to limit the risk of transmission is to vaccinate animals against infection, but this often involves the use of inactivated pathogens, which are expensive and difficult to produce and generate immune responses that are impossible to distinguish from natural infection. Vaccination can also be challenging in resource-poor settings, where effective veterinary management is lacking. Furthermore, emerging infections can evolve rapidly, such that the ability to reengineer or reformulate vaccines is necessary to retain their effectiveness. There is an urgent need for stable systems that can deliver multivalent antigens in cattle to limit human exposure. We have developed a novel, non-pathogenic protozoan parasite as a flexible and safe vaccine delivery vehicle that is well suited to deployment in low and middle income countries (LMIC). The parasite is the single-celled organism Trypanosoma theileri, which is found naturally in almost all cattle worldwide. This parasite can be easily and rapidly engineered to express heterologous antigens using existing modularised expression constructs that can be delivered systemically into recipients over a sustained period. Using an exemplar antigen from Babesia divergens (a cattle pathogen), we showed previously that vaccination using this system results in low-level prolonged immune stimulation to the delivered antigen at levels shown to generate protective immune responses to the target antigen. In the planned work, we will generate T. theileri lines expressing several antigens from the zoonotic threats, Coxiella, RVFV and CCHFV, and confirm their effective protein production using antibodies raised to recombinant proteins of each target. The vaccine vehicle will then be inoculated into cattle using T. theileri populations expressing one or more antigens (singly or in combination) and maintained over 12 weeks. Thereafter, immune responses generated to the expressed antigens will be measured to assess efficacy of immunisation in the context of single or multivalent delivery. We have shown previously that a single inoculation of the delivery vehicle is sufficient to establish and maintain persistence of the vehicle such that a ‘one-dose’ application suitable in LMIC is practical. The work here will demonstrate the potential for this flexible, sustained delivery system to protect cattle against emerging zoonotic infections, thus providing a barrier to epidemic outbreaks resulting from frequent human-animal contact in at-risk populations.","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",327239,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971516"
"49","971517",2,"Nanoparticle-based Vaccine Platform against Zika Virus Infection","Zika virus outbreak prompted the World Health Organization to declare this infection as a public health emergency. The infection is associated with fetal and neurological disorders and Zika vaccine must be developed. Zika belongs to the flavivirus family and to date, a few Zika vaccine candidates are under clinical trials but without concern about cost, stability in warm countries, large-scale production, feasibility or the administration route, especially in low and middle-income countries. Another evaded concern is the antibody-dependent enhancement of infection (ADE), a process aggravating the severity of co-infection by other flaviviruses when vaccinated. 
Our project aims at developing new applications for our vaccine platform based on innovative nanoparticles (NPs) for which the proof-of-concept of the vaccine potential and efficacy has already been established. Our technology is safe, easy to produce at the industrial scale, it stabilizes the vaccine components even at high temperature (40&deg;C), it is delivered via the nasal route and it elicits strong T-cell responses. The proposed target is the Zika virus and the strategy will use in parallel the inactivated virus and the recombinant antigenic DIII domain of the viral envelop to limit the ADE. The absence of antibody-enhanced infection by the vaccination will be evaluated against Dengue virus (DENV).
This project is the first step for the development of a technological vaccine platform against viruses to treat current and future viral outbreaks and unlimited perspectives are possible, starting with other flaviviruses like Dengue or Chikungunya viruses.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",208500,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971517"
"50","971517",2,"Nanoparticle-based Vaccine Platform against Zika Virus Infection","Zika virus outbreak prompted the World Health Organization to declare this infection as a public health emergency. The infection is associated with fetal and neurological disorders and Zika vaccine must be developed. Zika belongs to the flavivirus family and to date, a few Zika vaccine candidates are under clinical trials but without concern about cost, stability in warm countries, large-scale production, feasibility or the administration route, especially in low and middle-income countries. Another evaded concern is the antibody-dependent enhancement of infection (ADE), a process aggravating the severity of co-infection by other flaviviruses when vaccinated. 
Our project aims at developing new applications for our vaccine platform based on innovative nanoparticles (NPs) for which the proof-of-concept of the vaccine potential and efficacy has already been established. Our technology is safe, easy to produce at the industrial scale, it stabilizes the vaccine components even at high temperature (40&deg;C), it is delivered via the nasal route and it elicits strong T-cell responses. The proposed target is the Zika virus and the strategy will use in parallel the inactivated virus and the recombinant antigenic DIII domain of the viral envelop to limit the ADE. The absence of antibody-enhanced infection by the vaccination will be evaluated against Dengue virus (DENV).
This project is the first step for the development of a technological vaccine platform against viruses to treat current and future viral outbreaks and unlimited perspectives are possible, starting with other flaviviruses like Dengue or Chikungunya viruses.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",208500,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971517"
"51","971518",2,"Development of inducible expression-inactivated Leishmania as vaccine carries","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",499000,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971518"
"52","971518",2,"Development of inducible expression-inactivated Leishmania as vaccine carries","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",499000,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971518"
"53","971519",2,"Preclinical Crimean Congo Haemorraghic Fever Vaccine Development","Preclinical Crimean Congo Haemorraghic Fever Vaccine Development Crimean Congo Haemorraghic Fever virus (CCHFv) is a severe haemorraghic tick-borne disease which causes outbreaks with a case fatality rate of 10-40%. Ticks infect livestock, mainly sheep although many species may be infected, and humans may be infected by tick bites or contact with infected animal body fluids after which human to human transmission may occur. The disease is endemic in Africa, the Balkans, the Middle East and parts of Asia and no vaccine is available for either humans or livestock. The Jenner Institute has developed the replication-deficient simian adenoviral vector platform ChAdOx1 to produce vaccines against a number of outbreak pathogens. ChAdOx1-vectored vaccines are highly immunogenic for both humoral and cell-mediated responses after a single dose, can be produced in a highly efficient manufacturing process and can be thermostabilised. Efficacy in livestock against Rift Valley Fever virus and safety in humans in a number of different vaccine programmes has been demonstrated. A ChAdOx1 CCHF vaccine has been produced and is immunogenic in mice. We now propose to conduct a more detailed immunogenicity study and then test vaccine efficacy of one and two dose vaccine regimens against lethal challenge in a mouse model. Data generated in this study will support an application for the next stage of the development process which will be to demonstrate vaccine immunogencity and efficacy in sheep in a CCHF-endemic area.","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",350780,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971519"
"54","971519",2,"Preclinical Crimean Congo Haemorraghic Fever Vaccine Development","Preclinical Crimean Congo Haemorraghic Fever Vaccine Development Crimean Congo Haemorraghic Fever virus (CCHFv) is a severe haemorraghic tick-borne disease which causes outbreaks with a case fatality rate of 10-40%. Ticks infect livestock, mainly sheep although many species may be infected, and humans may be infected by tick bites or contact with infected animal body fluids after which human to human transmission may occur. The disease is endemic in Africa, the Balkans, the Middle East and parts of Asia and no vaccine is available for either humans or livestock. The Jenner Institute has developed the replication-deficient simian adenoviral vector platform ChAdOx1 to produce vaccines against a number of outbreak pathogens. ChAdOx1-vectored vaccines are highly immunogenic for both humoral and cell-mediated responses after a single dose, can be produced in a highly efficient manufacturing process and can be thermostabilised. Efficacy in livestock against Rift Valley Fever virus and safety in humans in a number of different vaccine programmes has been demonstrated. A ChAdOx1 CCHF vaccine has been produced and is immunogenic in mice. We now propose to conduct a more detailed immunogenicity study and then test vaccine efficacy of one and two dose vaccine regimens against lethal challenge in a mouse model. Data generated in this study will support an application for the next stage of the development process which will be to demonstrate vaccine immunogencity and efficacy in sheep in a CCHF-endemic area.","2017-04-01","2018-03-31",350780,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971519"
"55","971520",2,"New Application of a DNA-nanorod Platform for Vaccine Development","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-03-31",394466,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971520"
"56","971520",2,"New Application of a DNA-nanorod Platform for Vaccine Development","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-03-31",394466,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971520"
"57","971521",2,"Multi-valent Hantvirus-Vaccine (MVA SEO-HTN: Vacc) and a ferret model of disease","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",476102,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971521"
"58","971521",2,"Multi-valent Hantvirus-Vaccine (MVA SEO-HTN: Vacc) and a ferret model of disease","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",476102,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971521"
"59","971522",2,"Pan-filovirus T-cell Vaccine Designed as Bi-valent Conserved Region Epigraphs","Since their discovery in 1967, viruses in the Filoviridae family have caused over 50 outbreaks, of which the last one was the devastating epidemic in West Africa during 2013-16. They cause hemorrhagic fevers in humans and non-human primates with 90% fatality rates and there is no licensed drug or vaccine. This family includes 5 distinct species in the Ebolavirus genus: Ebola (EBOV), Sudan (SUDV), Reston (RESTV), Tai Forest (TAFV), and Bundibugyo (BDBV) viruses; 2 viruses in the Marburg-virus genus: Marburg (MARV) and Ravn (RAVV) viruses; and 1 virus species in the Cuevavirus genus: Lloviu virus (LLOV). To date, most vaccine efforts focus on induction of neutralizing antibodies against EBOV, and also SUDV or MARV. While there is a high degree of conservation within one species, so that, for example, antibody responses to EBOV vaccine would likely cross-react with other EBOV outbreaks, protection against other filoviruses will be very low. Furthermore, future outbreaks may result not only from re-emergence of a virus of a rare species, but also of a completely new, as yet unencountered species. We have designed a vaccine designated FILOcepX with the aim to protect against all filoviruses (Theiler et al. Sci Rep 2016, 6:33987). Our vaccine focuses on induction of effective killer T cells targeting the 4 most conserved protein regions among the entire known Filoviridae family. Because there is a remaining diversity even within conserved regions, the vaccine optimizes the match to all known species by employing computed bi-valent epigraphs (a pair of proteins) used as the vaccine immunogens (cep for Conserved EPigraphs). The two epigraphs complement each other, are always used together and are delivered by safe common cold-like adenovirus and smallpox-like vaccines in a simple, in humans proven highly immunogenic regimen. The T-cell strategy is supported by published protection of macaques against challenge with homologous EBOV challenge through vaccine-induced killer T cells. In preliminary experiments in two strains of mice, research-grade FILOcepX vaccines induced killer T cells recognizing many virus regions. Achieving the aims of Stage I will demonstrate the technical feasibility of our solution, provide a proof-of-concept protection against 2 distant viruses EBOV and MARV in macaques and indicate correlates of T-cell protection for future confirmation to inform licensure, and prepare vaccines for manufacture for human use. If invited, Stage II of the Innovation UK will evaluate the vaccine safety and immunogenicity in a small phase 1 clinical trial in Oxford adults. Post Innovation UK, strong and broad immunogenicity in humans supported by protection against two viruses in macaques may lead to a phase 2 trial in most at-risk human populations. Since phase 3 efficacy trial is not likely to be feasible, licensure may proceed through alternative regulatory pathway based on macaque correlates of protection and human phase 2a safety and immunogeni-city. Licenced vaccine would have multiple uses ranging from generation of vaccine stockpiles for containment of future outbreaks, elimination of the 2013 outbreak remnants, provision of long-term protection in high risk popula-tions to saving highly endangered western gorillas. Potential funders would involve international development agen-cies, the World Bank, philanthropies, defense funds, national governments in risk countries or large vaccine Pharmas.","2017-05-01","2018-07-31",499155,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971522"
"60","971522",2,"Pan-filovirus T-cell Vaccine Designed as Bi-valent Conserved Region Epigraphs","Since their discovery in 1967, viruses in the Filoviridae family have caused over 50 outbreaks, of which the last one was the devastating epidemic in West Africa during 2013-16. They cause hemorrhagic fevers in humans and non-human primates with 90% fatality rates and there is no licensed drug or vaccine. This family includes 5 distinct species in the Ebolavirus genus: Ebola (EBOV), Sudan (SUDV), Reston (RESTV), Tai Forest (TAFV), and Bundibugyo (BDBV) viruses; 2 viruses in the Marburg-virus genus: Marburg (MARV) and Ravn (RAVV) viruses; and 1 virus species in the Cuevavirus genus: Lloviu virus (LLOV). To date, most vaccine efforts focus on induction of neutralizing antibodies against EBOV, and also SUDV or MARV. While there is a high degree of conservation within one species, so that, for example, antibody responses to EBOV vaccine would likely cross-react with other EBOV outbreaks, protection against other filoviruses will be very low. Furthermore, future outbreaks may result not only from re-emergence of a virus of a rare species, but also of a completely new, as yet unencountered species. We have designed a vaccine designated FILOcepX with the aim to protect against all filoviruses (Theiler et al. Sci Rep 2016, 6:33987). Our vaccine focuses on induction of effective killer T cells targeting the 4 most conserved protein regions among the entire known Filoviridae family. Because there is a remaining diversity even within conserved regions, the vaccine optimizes the match to all known species by employing computed bi-valent epigraphs (a pair of proteins) used as the vaccine immunogens (cep for Conserved EPigraphs). The two epigraphs complement each other, are always used together and are delivered by safe common cold-like adenovirus and smallpox-like vaccines in a simple, in humans proven highly immunogenic regimen. The T-cell strategy is supported by published protection of macaques against challenge with homologous EBOV challenge through vaccine-induced killer T cells. In preliminary experiments in two strains of mice, research-grade FILOcepX vaccines induced killer T cells recognizing many virus regions. Achieving the aims of Stage I will demonstrate the technical feasibility of our solution, provide a proof-of-concept protection against 2 distant viruses EBOV and MARV in macaques and indicate correlates of T-cell protection for future confirmation to inform licensure, and prepare vaccines for manufacture for human use. If invited, Stage II of the Innovation UK will evaluate the vaccine safety and immunogenicity in a small phase 1 clinical trial in Oxford adults. Post Innovation UK, strong and broad immunogenicity in humans supported by protection against two viruses in macaques may lead to a phase 2 trial in most at-risk human populations. Since phase 3 efficacy trial is not likely to be feasible, licensure may proceed through alternative regulatory pathway based on macaque correlates of protection and human phase 2a safety and immunogeni-city. Licenced vaccine would have multiple uses ranging from generation of vaccine stockpiles for containment of future outbreaks, elimination of the 2013 outbreak remnants, provision of long-term protection in high risk popula-tions to saving highly endangered western gorillas. Potential funders would involve international development agen-cies, the World Bank, philanthropies, defense funds, national governments in risk countries or large vaccine Pharmas.","2017-05-01","2018-07-31",499155,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971522"
"61","971523",2,"Development of a Novel Nipah Virus Pre-Fusion Protein Recombinant Vaccine.","Abstract Nipah virus (NiV) is a member of the Henipavirus genus (family Paramyxoviridae) and is the causative agent of sporadic outbreaks of respiratory and encephalitic disease in Southeast Asia. During the initial NiV outbreaks in Malaysia and Singapore, most human NiV cases were caused by close contact with pigs. In subsequent outbreaks during 2001 to 2012 in Bangladesh and India, drinking fresh date palm sap, which was contaminated by fruit bat’s droppings, urine and saliva, and close contact with infected humans were found to be the major source of NiV infection. However, pigs are highly susceptible to NiV and generally serve as an amplifying host of the virus. Due to the lethal nature of disease and potential risk of reversion of a live attenuated vaccine to wild-type is not advisable. Therefore, many candidate vaccine for NiV are 'recombinant', where NiV proteins are produced from inserted genes in another safer virus (referred to as the vector). The fusion (F) and (G) proteins of NiV are commonly chosen as they provide an effective immune response in the body. The G protein allows the virus to attach to the cell and the F protein causes fusion of the virus envelope with the cell membrane so that the virus nucelic acid can enter the cell. Recently it has been discovered for several other paramyxovirus that the form of the F protein in the mature virus (post fusion form) is not as good at inducing an immune response as the form of F which occurs when the virus is entering cells (pre-fusion form). The pre-fusion F protein is unstable but we are able to stabilise this by making slight sequence changes. We will use another ‘safe’ member of the Paramyxovirdae, Sendai virus (SeV, a rodent virus) as the vector. We will compare the immune response of the SeV vaccines which produce one of the 2 types of F protein alone or each in combination with the G protein. Increasing evidence indicates that SeV has substantial potential as a vaccine vector in part because the virus uses common sialic acid receptors for cell entry, which facilitates infection of a wide range of cell types from different species including pigs and humans. Although SeV biosafety risks are minimal, we will also develop the system to generate replication-incompetent SeV NiV vaccines that infect host cells and produce the NiV F and G proteins but removes any residual biosafety concerns of a live SeV vector spreading between animals or humans. We hypothesise that novel vaccine approach based on replication-competent and incompetent SeV vectors expressing pre-fusion NiV F protein will provide a significant breakthrough in the generation of highly successful NiV vaccines. We further hypothesise that NiV vaccines based on rSeV expressing pre-fusion NiV F will induce more robust and longer lasting protective immunity than post fusion F vaccines. Used as a pig vaccine these systems will greatly reduce porcine to human transmission. Futhermore, production of non-replicating SeV vaccines addresses biosafety. As Sev also infects human cells, these vaccines could be subsequently trialled for human use.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",271373,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971523"
"62","971523",2,"Development of a Novel Nipah Virus Pre-Fusion Protein Recombinant Vaccine.","Abstract Nipah virus (NiV) is a member of the Henipavirus genus (family Paramyxoviridae) and is the causative agent of sporadic outbreaks of respiratory and encephalitic disease in Southeast Asia. During the initial NiV outbreaks in Malaysia and Singapore, most human NiV cases were caused by close contact with pigs. In subsequent outbreaks during 2001 to 2012 in Bangladesh and India, drinking fresh date palm sap, which was contaminated by fruit bat’s droppings, urine and saliva, and close contact with infected humans were found to be the major source of NiV infection. However, pigs are highly susceptible to NiV and generally serve as an amplifying host of the virus. Due to the lethal nature of disease and potential risk of reversion of a live attenuated vaccine to wild-type is not advisable. Therefore, many candidate vaccine for NiV are 'recombinant', where NiV proteins are produced from inserted genes in another safer virus (referred to as the vector). The fusion (F) and (G) proteins of NiV are commonly chosen as they provide an effective immune response in the body. The G protein allows the virus to attach to the cell and the F protein causes fusion of the virus envelope with the cell membrane so that the virus nucelic acid can enter the cell. Recently it has been discovered for several other paramyxovirus that the form of the F protein in the mature virus (post fusion form) is not as good at inducing an immune response as the form of F which occurs when the virus is entering cells (pre-fusion form). The pre-fusion F protein is unstable but we are able to stabilise this by making slight sequence changes. We will use another ‘safe’ member of the Paramyxovirdae, Sendai virus (SeV, a rodent virus) as the vector. We will compare the immune response of the SeV vaccines which produce one of the 2 types of F protein alone or each in combination with the G protein. Increasing evidence indicates that SeV has substantial potential as a vaccine vector in part because the virus uses common sialic acid receptors for cell entry, which facilitates infection of a wide range of cell types from different species including pigs and humans. Although SeV biosafety risks are minimal, we will also develop the system to generate replication-incompetent SeV NiV vaccines that infect host cells and produce the NiV F and G proteins but removes any residual biosafety concerns of a live SeV vector spreading between animals or humans. We hypothesise that novel vaccine approach based on replication-competent and incompetent SeV vectors expressing pre-fusion NiV F protein will provide a significant breakthrough in the generation of highly successful NiV vaccines. We further hypothesise that NiV vaccines based on rSeV expressing pre-fusion NiV F will induce more robust and longer lasting protective immunity than post fusion F vaccines. Used as a pig vaccine these systems will greatly reduce porcine to human transmission. Futhermore, production of non-replicating SeV vaccines addresses biosafety. As Sev also infects human cells, these vaccines could be subsequently trialled for human use.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",271373,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971523"
"63","971524",2,"PRECLINICAL PoC OF MULTIVALENT VACCINE AGENTS &amp; TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM","This project demonstrates pre-clinical proof of “Active Virosome Vaccines” for prevention of Chikungunya, Zika and Ebola virus infections. It will not only produce new, inherently safe, low cost and easy to produce vaccine agents for prevention of these infections and so suitable for responding quickly to outbreaks of these and other viral diseases, including in the countries where they are endemic. The project uses the &quot;Active Virosome&quot; technology platform, which is a simple, safe and efficient biotechnology for producing candidate vaccines, and can be easily modified to produce vaccines for new viral infection outbreaks, simply by slotting in a suitable &quot;cassette&quot; of genetic information. ActiVirosomes UK Limited, a young UK based biotechnology company, leads the project. The project lasts one year and costs &pound;448,950. It will demonstrate pre-clinical proof of concept of up to 3 candidate vaccines for single viral diseases and two candidate vaccines designed to give protection against more than one viral disease at once: the candidate vaccines will continue through development and safety testing from April 2018 and could start clinical trials in humans as soon as 2020. Active Virosomes have many advantages compared to other vaccines against viral infections, including their safety and low cost of development and manufacture, which makes them particularly suitable for development and use in low and middle income countries which suffer from viral infections carried by mosquitos.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",448950,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971524"
"64","971524",2,"PRECLINICAL PoC OF MULTIVALENT VACCINE AGENTS &amp; TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM","This project demonstrates pre-clinical proof of “Active Virosome Vaccines” for prevention of Chikungunya, Zika and Ebola virus infections. It will not only produce new, inherently safe, low cost and easy to produce vaccine agents for prevention of these infections and so suitable for responding quickly to outbreaks of these and other viral diseases, including in the countries where they are endemic. The project uses the &quot;Active Virosome&quot; technology platform, which is a simple, safe and efficient biotechnology for producing candidate vaccines, and can be easily modified to produce vaccines for new viral infection outbreaks, simply by slotting in a suitable &quot;cassette&quot; of genetic information. ActiVirosomes UK Limited, a young UK based biotechnology company, leads the project. The project lasts one year and costs &pound;448,950. It will demonstrate pre-clinical proof of concept of up to 3 candidate vaccines for single viral diseases and two candidate vaccines designed to give protection against more than one viral disease at once: the candidate vaccines will continue through development and safety testing from April 2018 and could start clinical trials in humans as soon as 2020. Active Virosomes have many advantages compared to other vaccines against viral infections, including their safety and low cost of development and manufacture, which makes them particularly suitable for development and use in low and middle income countries which suffer from viral infections carried by mosquitos.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",448950,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971524"
"65","971525",2,"Using engineered gut bacteria-derived microvesicles for plague vaccines","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",499798,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971525"
"66","971525",2,"Using engineered gut bacteria-derived microvesicles for plague vaccines","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",499798,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971525"
"67","971526",2,"Adjuvant free vaccines and companion diagnostics to control emerging flaviviruses","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-05-31",382974,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971526"
"68","971526",2,"Adjuvant free vaccines and companion diagnostics to control emerging flaviviruses","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-05-01","2018-05-31",382974,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971526"
"69","971527",2,"Serological Vaccine Standards for Ebola, Zika and MersCoV","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-04-01","2018-04-30",499995,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971527"
"70","971527",2,"Serological Vaccine Standards for Ebola, Zika and MersCoV","Awaiting Public Project Summary","2017-04-01","2018-04-30",499995,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971527"
"71","971540",2,"Guillain Barre syndrome antibodies during Zika and Cikungunya vaccine trials","There is considerable concern over human viral infections caused by Zika virus and Chikungunya virus. In 2016 the WHO declared Zika a 'Public Health Emergency of International Concern,' flagging up specifically the lack of vaccines and of reliable diagnostic tests. Both infections are spread by Aedes egyptii mosquitoes. Zika infection is thought to be asymptomatic in a majority of exposed individuals, to cause symptoms such as rash and conjunctivitis in about 20% and is more rarely associated with neurological symptoms, including microcephaly in the newborn and Guillain-Barr&eacute; syndrome (GBS) in adults. GBS can follow a number of infections (or, occasionally, vaccinations) including also Chikungunya. GBS is an acute paralysis seen as weakness that can affect breathing as well as the arms, legs and face. The mechanism is poorly understood but is believed to involve cross-reactive antibody targeting of glycolipid structures common to the the microbial pathogens and the human nervous system. It has been hard to develop widely applicable diagnostic tests and GBS is commonly diagnosed on the clinical assessment of a neurologist. The broad case for improved diagnostic platforms for GBS is readily made, but the need is all the more pressing in light of the current and forthcoming roll-out of new vaccine trials in regions most impacted by Zika and Chikungunya. A large number of Zika candidate vaccines are entering trials, these based on diverse approaches including viral recombinant subunit vaccines, live attenuated vaccines, whole inactivated vaccines and DNA vaccines. It is unknown whether any of these vaccines could cause GBS in some recipients as in 1976 when there was an increased risk of GBS after swine flu vaccination. A key concern voiced by vaccine producers is that any enhancement of such adverse events in Zika or Chikungunya vaccine trials would have devastating impact, including that on conduct of subsequent trials and implementation of related vaccines. However, we lack the tests for high-throughput diagnostic analysis and currently lack even basic disease surveillance on the seroprevalence of these GBS antibodies in the test populations. Here we bring together synergistic teams to harness neuroimmunologists with strong ZIka collaborations in Brazil, a glycobiology research team with unique resources for high-throughput analysis of glycoarray libraries with the wherewithal to translate GBS biosignature discovery into a simple, affordable kit. We see our technology as offering a safety-net to underpin development of Flavivirus vaccination programmes. We will start with a Discovery Phase, using GBS cohort sera to progress from comprehensive gylcolipid array libarary screening to a diagnostic probe set of high senstivity and specificity, which can be developed during the Development/Implementation Phase into a simplified, commercially affordable GBS diagnostic. The work is of high relevance to LMIC countries and will be conducted in collaboration with researchers in highly affected regions of Brazil.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",271764,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971540"
"72","971540",2,"Guillain Barre syndrome antibodies during Zika and Cikungunya vaccine trials","There is considerable concern over human viral infections caused by Zika virus and Chikungunya virus. In 2016 the WHO declared Zika a 'Public Health Emergency of International Concern,' flagging up specifically the lack of vaccines and of reliable diagnostic tests. Both infections are spread by Aedes egyptii mosquitoes. Zika infection is thought to be asymptomatic in a majority of exposed individuals, to cause symptoms such as rash and conjunctivitis in about 20% and is more rarely associated with neurological symptoms, including microcephaly in the newborn and Guillain-Barr&eacute; syndrome (GBS) in adults. GBS can follow a number of infections (or, occasionally, vaccinations) including also Chikungunya. GBS is an acute paralysis seen as weakness that can affect breathing as well as the arms, legs and face. The mechanism is poorly understood but is believed to involve cross-reactive antibody targeting of glycolipid structures common to the the microbial pathogens and the human nervous system. It has been hard to develop widely applicable diagnostic tests and GBS is commonly diagnosed on the clinical assessment of a neurologist. The broad case for improved diagnostic platforms for GBS is readily made, but the need is all the more pressing in light of the current and forthcoming roll-out of new vaccine trials in regions most impacted by Zika and Chikungunya. A large number of Zika candidate vaccines are entering trials, these based on diverse approaches including viral recombinant subunit vaccines, live attenuated vaccines, whole inactivated vaccines and DNA vaccines. It is unknown whether any of these vaccines could cause GBS in some recipients as in 1976 when there was an increased risk of GBS after swine flu vaccination. A key concern voiced by vaccine producers is that any enhancement of such adverse events in Zika or Chikungunya vaccine trials would have devastating impact, including that on conduct of subsequent trials and implementation of related vaccines. However, we lack the tests for high-throughput diagnostic analysis and currently lack even basic disease surveillance on the seroprevalence of these GBS antibodies in the test populations. Here we bring together synergistic teams to harness neuroimmunologists with strong ZIka collaborations in Brazil, a glycobiology research team with unique resources for high-throughput analysis of glycoarray libraries with the wherewithal to translate GBS biosignature discovery into a simple, affordable kit. We see our technology as offering a safety-net to underpin development of Flavivirus vaccination programmes. We will start with a Discovery Phase, using GBS cohort sera to progress from comprehensive gylcolipid array libarary screening to a diagnostic probe set of high senstivity and specificity, which can be developed during the Development/Implementation Phase into a simplified, commercially affordable GBS diagnostic. The work is of high relevance to LMIC countries and will be conducted in collaboration with researchers in highly affected regions of Brazil.","2017-05-01","2018-04-30",271764,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971540"
"73","971553",2,"Ebola vaccines: persistence of immunity &amp; response to booster dose of MVA-EBO Z","The recent Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa resulted in an unprecedented global effort to develop vaccines against this deadly virus, culminating in direct evidence for efficacy for one of the candidate vaccines. This proof that immunisations can protect against Ebola virus infection suggests that they will have a crucial role in the control of future outbreaks of Ebola virus disease.
One potential approach to use of these vaccines is pre-emptive immunisation of populations at increased risk of disease, including health care workers (either resident in at-risk areas or as part of international response teams). When used in this way the persistence of vaccine induced immunity is of critical importance to ensure long-term protection against outbreaks, the timing of which are inherently unpredictable.
Accordingly in this project we will provide world first data on the persistence of immunity following immunisation with schedules including four of the leading Ebola vaccine candidates. These include MVA-EBO Z, a vaccine developed in Oxford that has a particular role in ‘boosting’ immunity following immunisation with other Ebola vaccines. Furthermore, the immune response to a late booster dose of the MVA-EBO Z vaccine will be evaluated, as will the persistence of this response to 1 year after boosting.
To achieve this all 394 participants completing the six phase 1 and 2 Ebola vaccine studies in the UK and Senegal will be invited to participate in these ‘follow-on’ studies, in which blood tests will be taken at 2 to 3 years after initial immunisation. Participants in all but one of these studies will receive a booster dose of MVA-EBO Z, with the remaining group (approximately 35 participants) acting as non-boosted ‘controls’. Blood tests will be taken one month after boosting, with all participants having a further blood test at one year after enrolment. Antibody and cellular immune response will be evaluated at laboratories in Oxford and Senegal.
The vaccine trial units at Oxford are particularly well placed to conduct these studies, having administered the ‘first in human’ dose for four of the five vaccines tested in Africa during the recent outbreak. This programme will providing novel data on immune persistence that is essential to the global community’s understanding of how these vaccines can be best deployed to curtail future outbreaks of this devastating illness.","2017-09-01","2020-12-31",1217548,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971553"
"74","971553",2,"Ebola vaccines: persistence of immunity &amp; response to booster dose of MVA-EBO Z","The recent Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa resulted in an unprecedented global effort to develop vaccines against this deadly virus, culminating in direct evidence for efficacy for one of the candidate vaccines. This proof that immunisations can protect against Ebola virus infection suggests that they will have a crucial role in the control of future outbreaks of Ebola virus disease.
One potential approach to use of these vaccines is pre-emptive immunisation of populations at increased risk of disease, including health care workers (either resident in at-risk areas or as part of international response teams). When used in this way the persistence of vaccine induced immunity is of critical importance to ensure long-term protection against outbreaks, the timing of which are inherently unpredictable.
Accordingly in this project we will provide world first data on the persistence of immunity following immunisation with schedules including four of the leading Ebola vaccine candidates. These include MVA-EBO Z, a vaccine developed in Oxford that has a particular role in ‘boosting’ immunity following immunisation with other Ebola vaccines. Furthermore, the immune response to a late booster dose of the MVA-EBO Z vaccine will be evaluated, as will the persistence of this response to 1 year after boosting.
To achieve this all 394 participants completing the six phase 1 and 2 Ebola vaccine studies in the UK and Senegal will be invited to participate in these ‘follow-on’ studies, in which blood tests will be taken at 2 to 3 years after initial immunisation. Participants in all but one of these studies will receive a booster dose of MVA-EBO Z, with the remaining group (approximately 35 participants) acting as non-boosted ‘controls’. Blood tests will be taken one month after boosting, with all participants having a further blood test at one year after enrolment. Antibody and cellular immune response will be evaluated at laboratories in Oxford and Senegal.
The vaccine trial units at Oxford are particularly well placed to conduct these studies, having administered the ‘first in human’ dose for four of the five vaccines tested in Africa during the recent outbreak. This programme will providing novel data on immune persistence that is essential to the global community’s understanding of how these vaccines can be best deployed to curtail future outbreaks of this devastating illness.","2017-09-01","2021-12-31",1218548,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971553"
"75","971554",2,"phase I study of recombinant poxvirus Zika vaccines","Since the recognition of Zika virus as a cause of severe birth defects and nerve disorders in South America, a vaccine is urgently needed. We will develop vaccine candidates based on two viruses which have been used for similar puposes in humans before: modified vaccinia Ankara and fowlpox virus. In this research, we will first confirm that these vaccines work in mice (stop/go decision point) by using them to protect mice against Zika virus in the laboratory. We will then take these vaccines through the process of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) manufacture (the standard needed to develop a new product to use in people), and final safety testing vefore human use. Lastly, we will carry out the first tests of these vaccines in humans (phase I clinical trial) to check they are safe, and that we can detect a response to the vaccines in people.
Our vaccine candidates are based on viruses which are known to be safe in humans and have been used many times to make other vaccines. These vaccine candidates are distinct from other Zika vaccines currently being developed because they aimed at both making antibodies against the outer part (envelope) of the virus, as well as specialised white blood cell responses (called killer T cells). Most vaccines aim to make only antibody responses. We already have successful vaccines to diseases caused by similar viruses, like yellow fever and Japanese encephalitis. These vaccines work both by creating antibodies, but they also make killer T cell responses. This twin-track approach is aimed at generating better and longer lasting immunity. This is especially important for the family of viruses (flaviviruses), where there are known problems with cross-reactivity between viruses. A Zika vaccine is going to be of most use in tropical climates, where there are several other closely related viruses found like dengue, Japanese encephalitis, and Yellow Fever (or if not Yellow Fever itself, then most people would already have had the vaccine). In addition, we expect vaccines based on modified vaccinia Ankara and Fowlpox to be safe in pregnancy. These poxviruses have been chosen for their safety record, their known beneficial effects when used in combination, and also their potential to be used as vaccines for more than one disease in the future.","2017-09-01","2022-03-31",4716257,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971554"
"76","971554",2,"phase I study of recombinant poxvirus Zika vaccines","Since the recognition of Zika virus as a cause of severe birth defects and nerve disorders in South America, a vaccine is urgently needed. We will develop vaccine candidates based on two viruses which have been used for similar puposes in humans before: modified vaccinia Ankara and fowlpox virus. In this research, we will first confirm that these vaccines work in mice (stop/go decision point) by using them to protect mice against Zika virus in the laboratory. We will then take these vaccines through the process of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) manufacture (the standard needed to develop a new product to use in people), and final safety testing vefore human use. Lastly, we will carry out the first tests of these vaccines in humans (phase I clinical trial) to check they are safe, and that we can detect a response to the vaccines in people.
Our vaccine candidates are based on viruses which are known to be safe in humans and have been used many times to make other vaccines. These vaccine candidates are distinct from other Zika vaccines currently being developed because they aimed at both making antibodies against the outer part (envelope) of the virus, as well as specialised white blood cell responses (called killer T cells). Most vaccines aim to make only antibody responses. We already have successful vaccines to diseases caused by similar viruses, like yellow fever and Japanese encephalitis. These vaccines work both by creating antibodies, but they also make killer T cell responses. This twin-track approach is aimed at generating better and longer lasting immunity. This is especially important for the family of viruses (flaviviruses), where there are known problems with cross-reactivity between viruses. A Zika vaccine is going to be of most use in tropical climates, where there are several other closely related viruses found like dengue, Japanese encephalitis, and Yellow Fever (or if not Yellow Fever itself, then most people would already have had the vaccine). In addition, we expect vaccines based on modified vaccinia Ankara and Fowlpox to be safe in pregnancy. These poxviruses have been chosen for their safety record, their known beneficial effects when used in combination, and also their potential to be used as vaccines for more than one disease in the future.","2017-09-01","2022-03-31",4716257,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971554"
"77","971555",2,"A Nipah vaccine to eliminate porcine reservoirs and safeguard human health","Nipah virus (NiV) causes a severe and often fatal neurological disease in humans. Whilst fruit bats are considered the natural reservoir, NiV also infects pigs and may cause an unapparent or mild disease. Direct pig-to-human transmission was responsible for the first and still most devastating NiV outbreaks in Malaysia and Singapore in 1998-99, with nearly 300 human cases and over 100 fatalities. Pigs therefore play a key role in the epidemiology of NiV by acting as an ‘amplifying’ host. The outbreak in Singapore ended with the prohibition of pig imports from Malaysia and the Malaysian outbreak was ended by culling 45% of the country’s pig population. The NiV outbreak incurred significant economic costs and long-term damage to the Malaysian pig industry: US$582 million in direct costs and lost market revenue, including US$97 million in compensation to farmers for the 1.1 million pigs slaughtered and 36,000 jobs lost. To this date, Malaysian pig farming is only permitted in “identified pig farming areas”, with farmers in other areas encouraged to undertake alternative activities. This project will develop an inexpensive, safe and efficacious vaccine for use in pigs to protect against NiV infection and transmission thereby reducing the risk to public health. The vaccine will also reduce the major risk NiV poses to both the nascent developing pig industries, as well as to the livelihoods of poor livestock keepers in low and middle income countries. The vaccine will enable the discrimination of infection in vaccinated animals and therefore provide an important new tool to aid the monitoring, control and elimination of NiV from these reservoirs in South and Southeast Asia. The project will also provide a solid basis for the further evaluation of the vaccine for protection of humans against NiV infection.","2017-09-01","2021-12-31",2359553,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971555"
"78","971555",2,"A Nipah vaccine to eliminate porcine reservoirs and safeguard human health","Nipah virus (NiV) causes a severe and often fatal neurological disease in humans. Whilst fruit bats are considered the natural reservoir, NiV also infects pigs and may cause an unapparent or mild disease. Direct pig-to-human transmission was responsible for the first and still most devastating NiV outbreaks in Malaysia and Singapore in 1998-99, with nearly 300 human cases and over 100 fatalities. Pigs therefore play a key role in the epidemiology of NiV by acting as an ‘amplifying’ host. The outbreak in Singapore ended with the prohibition of pig imports from Malaysia and the Malaysian outbreak was ended by culling 45% of the country’s pig population. The NiV outbreak incurred significant economic costs and long-term damage to the Malaysian pig industry: US$582 million in direct costs and lost market revenue, including US$97 million in compensation to farmers for the 1.1 million pigs slaughtered and 36,000 jobs lost. To this date, Malaysian pig farming is only permitted in “identified pig farming areas”, with farmers in other areas encouraged to undertake alternative activities. This project will develop an inexpensive, safe and efficacious vaccine for use in pigs to protect against NiV infection and transmission thereby reducing the risk to public health. The vaccine will also reduce the major risk NiV poses to both the nascent developing pig industries, as well as to the livelihoods of poor livestock keepers in low and middle income countries. The vaccine will enable the discrimination of infection in vaccinated animals and therefore provide an important new tool to aid the monitoring, control and elimination of NiV from these reservoirs in South and Southeast Asia. The project will also provide a solid basis for the further evaluation of the vaccine for protection of humans against NiV infection.","2017-09-01","2021-12-31",2359553,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971555"
"79","971556",2,"Vaccine against mosquito-borne diseases","Mosquitoes cause millions of deaths every year by spreading disease in humans. Mosquitoes are known to carry many infectious diseases from several different classes of microorganisms, including viruses and parasites found in their saliva. For example, Aedes sp.is the carrier for Zika, Dengue, Chikungunya and Yellow Fever viruses. More than half of the world’s population live in areas where these mosquito species are present. Despite many attempts to control the mosquito population and efforts to develop pathogen-specific vaccines, these diseases continue to be one of the major challenges to health and the economy in low and middle income countries.
Imutex Limited has developed AGS-v, a multivalent vaccine that aims to protect humans against a variety of mosquito borne diseases. AGS-v does not target the specific pathogen but the mosquito. AGS-v contains four small proteins that mimic proteins found in the saliva of many mosquito species. During a blood feed, female mosquitoes secrete saliva in the bite site to help with the blood flow. If the mosquito is infected, pathogens will be found in its saliva. The immune response generated after vaccination with AGS-v is designed to fight the pathogen when the mosquito spits saliva with pathogen in the blood during a feed. In addition, when the mosquito feeds it takes up blood containing AGS-v specific immune response. This will impede feeding reducing the survival of the mosquito and thus blocking the transmission of the disease to another human.
AGS-v is currently being tested for safety in a first-in-man clinical trial at the National Institutes of Health in the US. The funding requested to Innovate UK will go towards further developing AGS-v in a second clinical trial building up on the data gathered so far in order to improve dosage and formulation of AGS-v. In vitro efficacy of AGS-v in killing Zika and Chikungunya viruses will be explored and the effects of the vaccine on the survival of Aedes mosquito species will be assessed. Although Aedes aegypti is the main carrier of Zika and Chinkungunya, Aedes albopictus which has recently colonised southern Europe from Asia, has been shown to be able to carry those viruses too, hence becoming a threat to European countries too.
AGS-v has been developed with low and middle income countries in mind. It has been optimised to require only two doses, to require no cold-chain and to be manufactured through a scalable low cost synthetic process.","2017-09-01","2021-08-31",3600000,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971556"
"80","971556",2,"Vaccine against mosquito-borne diseases","Mosquitoes cause millions of deaths every year by spreading disease in humans. Mosquitoes are known to carry many infectious diseases from several different classes of microorganisms, including viruses and parasites found in their saliva. For example, Aedes sp.is the carrier for Zika, Dengue, Chikungunya and Yellow Fever viruses. More than half of the world’s population live in areas where these mosquito species are present. Despite many attempts to control the mosquito population and efforts to develop pathogen-specific vaccines, these diseases continue to be one of the major challenges to health and the economy in low and middle income countries.
Imutex Limited has developed AGS-v, a multivalent vaccine that aims to protect humans against a variety of mosquito borne diseases. AGS-v does not target the specific pathogen but the mosquito. AGS-v contains four small proteins that mimic proteins found in the saliva of many mosquito species. During a blood feed, female mosquitoes secrete saliva in the bite site to help with the blood flow. If the mosquito is infected, pathogens will be found in its saliva. The immune response generated after vaccination with AGS-v is designed to fight the pathogen when the mosquito spits saliva with pathogen in the blood during a feed. In addition, when the mosquito feeds it takes up blood containing AGS-v specific immune response. This will impede feeding reducing the survival of the mosquito and thus blocking the transmission of the disease to another human.
AGS-v is currently being tested for safety in a first-in-man clinical trial at the National Institutes of Health in the US. The funding requested to Innovate UK will go towards further developing AGS-v in a second clinical trial building up on the data gathered so far in order to improve dosage and formulation of AGS-v. In vitro efficacy of AGS-v in killing Zika and Chikungunya viruses will be explored and the effects of the vaccine on the survival of Aedes mosquito species will be assessed. Although Aedes aegypti is the main carrier of Zika and Chinkungunya, Aedes albopictus which has recently colonised southern Europe from Asia, has been shown to be able to carry those viruses too, hence becoming a threat to European countries too.
AGS-v has been developed with low and middle income countries in mind. It has been optimised to require only two doses, to require no cold-chain and to be manufactured through a scalable low cost synthetic process.","2017-09-01","2022-03-31",3600000,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971556"
"81","971557",2,"Phase Ib trial of a simple, multivalent vaccine to prevent Zika and Chikungunya","The aim of this project is to complete a Phase Ib trial of a new bivalent vaccine to induce simultaneous immunity against Zika and Chikungunya, simplifying future vaccination campaigns for countries where both diseases co-circulate in the same regions, and where protection against both diseases is needed. Infection by ZIKV is a major concern worldwide due to the neurologic conditions, such as Guillain-Barr&eacute; syndrome and a concurrent 20-fold increase in the incidence of microcephaly during the ZIKV outbreak in Brazil between 2014 and 2015 and in Mexico, where microcephaly caused by ZIKV has been confirmed. Aedes mosquitoes transmit Chikungunya virus (CHIKV), ZIKV and Dengue in the same geographical regions. CHIKV produces symptomatic disease in approximately &frac34; of infected people, leading in many cases to long-term sequelae in people of all ages. Persistent arthritis cause disability for several years, contributing to poverty as young adults are unable to perform their physical activities required for work. Costs for families and governments are augmented due to the need to administer anti-inflammatory drugs to provide a short-term relief in patients. No vaccine is yet licensed for the prevention of CHIKV or ZIKV infections.
The sudden presence of Zika and Chikungunya in the same geographical regions have overwhelmed health systems that were already challenged by Dengue, thus increasing the failure to provide treatment and preventive measures to their populations during the outbreak, while posing new challenges for treatment of both Zika and Chikungunya due to the long-term sequelae of more than 6 years for these diseases. These diseases are transitioning from an epidemic nature towards endemic diseases due to enabling drivers such as poor socioeconomic conditions, climate change and migration. A major breakthrough will be to provide governments with tools to simultaneously fight these highly prevalent arbovirus diseases and a multivalent vaccine able to protect against both Zika and Chikungunya would be an ideal preventive solution. This proposal has five major aims:
1. Production of a large GMP batch of ChAdOx1-Zika (A parallel proposal submitted to Innovate UK could support a
large GMP batch of a ChAdOx1-Chikungunya vaccine).
2. A Phase Ib trial of the bivalent vaccine in Mexico, in the city of Veracruz, where both diseases are prevalent.
3. A study to assess incidence of Zika and Chikungunya in the ZIKV and CHIKV-endemic regions of Veracruz and
Michoacan, to inform future Phase IIb efficacy trials in Mexico.
4. Capacity development in Veracruz, Mexico to perform clinical trials.
5. Reproduction toxicology for the Zika vaccine to support their use in pregnant women. This will consist of an embryo-foetal, pre- and post-natal development studies in the mouse.
This proposal is fully aligned with the Officiald Development Assistance (ODA) and focuses on the development of vaccines that are appropriate for use in low- and middle- income countries, such as Mexico where recent outbreaks of Chikungunya and Zika have taken place in 2015 and 2016, respectively, and where arboviral diseases are contributing to poverty.","2017-10-01","2022-03-31",3463675,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971557"
"82","971557",2,"Phase Ib trial of a simple, multivalent vaccine to prevent Zika and Chikungunya","The aim of this project is to complete a Phase Ib trial of a new bivalent vaccine to induce simultaneous immunity against Zika and Chikungunya, simplifying future vaccination campaigns for countries where both diseases co-circulate in the same regions, and where protection against both diseases is needed. Infection by ZIKV is a major concern worldwide due to the neurologic conditions, such as Guillain-Barr&eacute; syndrome and a concurrent 20-fold increase in the incidence of microcephaly during the ZIKV outbreak in Brazil between 2014 and 2015 and in Mexico, where microcephaly caused by ZIKV has been confirmed. Aedes mosquitoes transmit Chikungunya virus (CHIKV), ZIKV and Dengue in the same geographical regions. CHIKV produces symptomatic disease in approximately &frac34; of infected people, leading in many cases to long-term sequelae in people of all ages. Persistent arthritis cause disability for several years, contributing to poverty as young adults are unable to perform their physical activities required for work. Costs for families and governments are augmented due to the need to administer anti-inflammatory drugs to provide a short-term relief in patients. No vaccine is yet licensed for the prevention of CHIKV or ZIKV infections.
The sudden presence of Zika and Chikungunya in the same geographical regions have overwhelmed health systems that were already challenged by Dengue, thus increasing the failure to provide treatment and preventive measures to their populations during the outbreak, while posing new challenges for treatment of both Zika and Chikungunya due to the long-term sequelae of more than 6 years for these diseases. These diseases are transitioning from an epidemic nature towards endemic diseases due to enabling drivers such as poor socioeconomic conditions, climate change and migration. A major breakthrough will be to provide governments with tools to simultaneously fight these highly prevalent arbovirus diseases and a multivalent vaccine able to protect against both Zika and Chikungunya would be an ideal preventive solution. This proposal has five major aims:
1. Production of a large GMP batch of ChAdOx1-Zika (A parallel proposal submitted to Innovate UK could support a
large GMP batch of a ChAdOx1-Chikungunya vaccine).
2. A Phase Ib trial of the bivalent vaccine in Mexico, in the city of Veracruz, where both diseases are prevalent.
3. A study to assess incidence of Zika and Chikungunya in the ZIKV and CHIKV-endemic regions of Veracruz and
Michoacan, to inform future Phase IIb efficacy trials in Mexico.
4. Capacity development in Veracruz, Mexico to perform clinical trials.
5. Reproduction toxicology for the Zika vaccine to support their use in pregnant women. This will consist of an embryo-foetal, pre- and post-natal development studies in the mouse.
This proposal is fully aligned with the Officiald Development Assistance (ODA) and focuses on the development of vaccines that are appropriate for use in low- and middle- income countries, such as Mexico where recent outbreaks of Chikungunya and Zika have taken place in 2015 and 2016, respectively, and where arboviral diseases are contributing to poverty.","2017-10-01","2022-03-31",3463675,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971557"
"83","971558",2,"Clinical development of a new vaccine for rapid response against Plague: GMP","This project aims to progress a novel vaccine against plague (Yersinia pestis), developed during a Innovate UK stream 1 project, to clinical development, including production of the vaccine in an approved facility for use in humans and a phase I clinical trial. The trial will determine the new vaccine’s safety in healthy adult volunteers, and also allow the quantification and characterization of its immunogenicity in humans. Our novel vaccine against plague uses a potent vaccine delivery technology suitable for outbreak situations in low-income countries. Plague is a highly contagious and virulent infectious disease: Since the 1990s, the number of human plague cases has increased in 25 countries, and plague is now classified as a re-emerging infectious disease for the following reasons: 1. there are large reservoirs in Africa, Asia and the Americas, 2. its endemicity throughout the world results in sporadic infections and outbreaks (including recent epidemic in the 21st century), 3. There is 100% mortality unless antibiotic treatment of pneumonic plague is commenced within 24 h after the onset of symptoms, 4. its potential use as a bioweapon due to its extreme virulence and ease of spread (through aerosol), and 5. the emergence of antibiotic-resistance strains. Vaccine development efforts against plague have been dominated by the use of live attenuated vaccines and sub-unit proteins. Live attenuated vaccines pose significant safety concerns and there is disagreement over the level of protection achieved. Sub-unit proteins in adjuvant have demonstrated a certain degree of protection in animal models, but the immune response seems limited to antibodies, while a cellular response correlates with increased efficacy. Our novel vaccine is based on a harmless replication-incompetent virus, usually responsible for upper respiratory tract infections, but rendered harmless by genetic modification. This vaccine technology is highly immunogenic, currently used for developing new vaccines against several infectious diseases such as Ebola, malaria, influenza, HIV, TB and capsular group B meningococcus. It is also suitable for diseases for which cellular immune responses are required for protection, in addition to antibody responses as is the case for plague. Moreover it is also suited to outbreak situation in low-income countries, as it induces rapid response after a single injection. For the recent Ebola outbreak, all vaccines evaluated in the field were based on viral vectors. We have created a vectored plague vaccine that expresses proteins known to elicit protective immune responses. We have demonstrated that a single dose vaccine induces the desired immune response, with levels matching the responses induced by two injections of a high-dose adjuvanted sub-unit protein-based vaccines. In this project, the vaccine will be produced to good manufacturing practice (GMP conditions), and will be tested in a first-in-man phase I clinical trial. Our group has expertise in progressing vectored based vaccines against bacterial pathogens to GMP production and phase I trial. We will assess the safety of the vaccine composition in healthy adult volunteers, investigate the immune responses induced in humans, measure the level of protection induced by the antibodies, and identify the optimal dose to be used in adults. If successful, this project will provide a strong case for progressing this new vaccine against plague in phase II development.","2017-10-01","2022-03-31",3093439,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971558"
"84","971558",2,"Clinical development of a new vaccine for rapid response against Plague: GMP","This project aims to progress a novel vaccine against plague (Yersinia pestis), developed during a Innovate UK stream 1 project, to clinical development, including production of the vaccine in an approved facility for use in humans and a phase I clinical trial. The trial will determine the new vaccine’s safety in healthy adult volunteers, and also allow the quantification and characterization of its immunogenicity in humans. Our novel vaccine against plague uses a potent vaccine delivery technology suitable for outbreak situations in low-income countries. Plague is a highly contagious and virulent infectious disease: Since the 1990s, the number of human plague cases has increased in 25 countries, and plague is now classified as a re-emerging infectious disease for the following reasons: 1. there are large reservoirs in Africa, Asia and the Americas, 2. its endemicity throughout the world results in sporadic infections and outbreaks (including recent epidemic in the 21st century), 3. There is 100% mortality unless antibiotic treatment of pneumonic plague is commenced within 24 h after the onset of symptoms, 4. its potential use as a bioweapon due to its extreme virulence and ease of spread (through aerosol), and 5. the emergence of antibiotic-resistance strains. Vaccine development efforts against plague have been dominated by the use of live attenuated vaccines and sub-unit proteins. Live attenuated vaccines pose significant safety concerns and there is disagreement over the level of protection achieved. Sub-unit proteins in adjuvant have demonstrated a certain degree of protection in animal models, but the immune response seems limited to antibodies, while a cellular response correlates with increased efficacy. Our novel vaccine is based on a harmless replication-incompetent virus, usually responsible for upper respiratory tract infections, but rendered harmless by genetic modification. This vaccine technology is highly immunogenic, currently used for developing new vaccines against several infectious diseases such as Ebola, malaria, influenza, HIV, TB and capsular group B meningococcus. It is also suitable for diseases for which cellular immune responses are required for protection, in addition to antibody responses as is the case for plague. Moreover it is also suited to outbreak situation in low-income countries, as it induces rapid response after a single injection. For the recent Ebola outbreak, all vaccines evaluated in the field were based on viral vectors. We have created a vectored plague vaccine that expresses proteins known to elicit protective immune responses. We have demonstrated that a single dose vaccine induces the desired immune response, with levels matching the responses induced by two injections of a high-dose adjuvanted sub-unit protein-based vaccines. In this project, the vaccine will be produced to good manufacturing practice (GMP conditions), and will be tested in a first-in-man phase I clinical trial. Our group has expertise in progressing vectored based vaccines against bacterial pathogens to GMP production and phase I trial. We will assess the safety of the vaccine composition in healthy adult volunteers, investigate the immune responses induced in humans, measure the level of protection induced by the antibodies, and identify the optimal dose to be used in adults. If successful, this project will provide a strong case for progressing this new vaccine against plague in phase II development.","2017-10-01","2022-03-31",3093436,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971558"
"85","971574",2,"Identification &amp; Validation of Correlate of Protection for a Chikungunya Vaccine","A vaccine towards chikungunya is considered a high priority by the UK Vaccine Network in order to protect against explosive epidemics seen around the globe - outbreaks that hit low to middle income countries (LMIC) particularly hard. A future vaccine must be both affordable &amp; effective in providing durable immunity through a single dose. This work will facilitate the progression of a developmental vaccine by identifying and validating a serologic marker of efficacy or correlate of protection that will rapidly drive the vaccine through phase 3 clinical trials, ultimately towards regulatory approval. Chikungunya infects people via mosquitoes causing an acute high fever, headaches, rash, myalgia, nausea, vomiting, polyarthritis &amp; conjunctivitis. Well over half of those infected go on to develop a severe debilitating polyarthralga of the joints that persist for months that can prevent the infected from working. Furthermore, both the young and old are hit particularly hard that can often result in their death. Currently no treatments or vaccines exist towards chikungunya. Large epidemics occur episodically &amp; are unpredicitable, tending to be explosive. Between 2005 and 2006 there were over half a million cases in the Comoros and La Renuion islands with cases also found in Australia, USA, Canada &amp; Europe as well as in the UK spread by infected travellers coming from infected regions. Over the past few years another large epidemic occurred in the Caribbean region with almost 1.4 million suspected cases of infection (WHO).
MV-CHIK has been evaluated in clinical trials demonstrating good safety &amp; efficacy. To progress into advanced phase 3 clinical trials, typically large field trials with huge subject numbers are required. However, given that chikungunya occurs in explosive &amp; sporadic epidemics, large field trial become both impractical as well as prohibitively expensive for vaccine trials. Through performing a phase 2 clinical trial &amp; using the human serum to identify &amp; demonstrate a suitable correlate of protection, vaccine efficicacy can be assessed using this measure in phase 3 trials rather than relying only on health outcomes using highly powered clinical trials. Because non-human primates (NHP) demonstrate similar infection symptoms to humans, by performing carefully designed passive transfer of serum obtained from human trials into NHPs, these animals when challenged with the wild type virus will demonstrate that the vaccine is protective, helping build a strong correlate between the efficacy test results &amp; protection.
Clinical trial material will be produced during 2017 &amp; recruitment of 60 human subjects for a clinical trial will begin as early as 2018. The objective of the vaccine is to accelearate production of an affordable efficacious vaccine that can be administered in just a single dose that will safely provide persistent immunity in the recipients.","2017-09-01","2021-03-31",3e+06,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971574"
"86","971574",2,"Identification &amp; Validation of Correlate of Protection for a Chikungunya Vaccine","A vaccine towards chikungunya is considered a high priority by the UK Vaccine Network in order to protect against explosive epidemics seen around the globe - outbreaks that hit low to middle income countries (LMIC) particularly hard. A future vaccine must be both affordable &amp; effective in providing durable immunity through a single dose. This work will facilitate the progression of a developmental vaccine by identifying and validating a serologic marker of efficacy or correlate of protection that will rapidly drive the vaccine through phase 3 clinical trials, ultimately towards regulatory approval. Chikungunya infects people via mosquitoes causing an acute high fever, headaches, rash, myalgia, nausea, vomiting, polyarthritis &amp; conjunctivitis. Well over half of those infected go on to develop a severe debilitating polyarthralga of the joints that persist for months that can prevent the infected from working. Furthermore, both the young and old are hit particularly hard that can often result in their death. Currently no treatments or vaccines exist towards chikungunya. Large epidemics occur episodically &amp; are unpredicitable, tending to be explosive. Between 2005 and 2006 there were over half a million cases in the Comoros and La Renuion islands with cases also found in Australia, USA, Canada &amp; Europe as well as in the UK spread by infected travellers coming from infected regions. Over the past few years another large epidemic occurred in the Caribbean region with almost 1.4 million suspected cases of infection (WHO).
MV-CHIK has been evaluated in clinical trials demonstrating good safety &amp; efficacy. To progress into advanced phase 3 clinical trials, typically large field trials with huge subject numbers are required. However, given that chikungunya occurs in explosive &amp; sporadic epidemics, large field trial become both impractical as well as prohibitively expensive for vaccine trials. Through performing a phase 2 clinical trial &amp; using the human serum to identify &amp; demonstrate a suitable correlate of protection, vaccine efficicacy can be assessed using this measure in phase 3 trials rather than relying only on health outcomes using highly powered clinical trials. Because non-human primates (NHP) demonstrate similar infection symptoms to humans, by performing carefully designed passive transfer of serum obtained from human trials into NHPs, these animals when challenged with the wild type virus will demonstrate that the vaccine is protective, helping build a strong correlate between the efficacy test results &amp; protection.
Clinical trial material will be produced during 2017 &amp; recruitment of 60 human subjects for a clinical trial will begin as early as 2018. The objective of the vaccine is to accelearate production of an affordable efficacious vaccine that can be administered in just a single dose that will safely provide persistent immunity in the recipients.","2017-09-01","2020-12-31",3e+06,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971574"
"87","971613",2,"Serological Vaccine Standards for Emerging Diseases","The development of safe, effective and economically affordable vaccines against Emerging Diseases, such as Ebola and Zika, would provide powerful tools not only to prevent re-emergence of these diseases in countries where they are endemic, but also enable swift and effective control of outbreaks initiated by infected returning travellers.&nbsp; However, these infectious agents can only be handled under high levels of bio-security, making the cost of research on these agents prohibitive for most commercial organisations.&nbsp; The availability of established standards and reference materials accelerates the development of licenced vaccines.&nbsp; Where there is robust evidence that convalescent serum (ie serum obtained from someone who has recovered from an infectious disease) protects against reinfection, then the preparation and distribution of serum standards that have been demonstrated to confer protection against infection is hugely beneficial.&nbsp; These serum standards facilitate pre-clinical and early clinical development and selection of the most promising experimental vaccine without the need for expensive studies under bio-containment, as the serum standard provides as in vitro reference marker for serological protection. NIBSC is the global leader in the development of World Health Organisation (WHO) established International Standards and reference materials for biological medicines such as vaccines.&nbsp; At the request of the WHO, NIBSC is undertaking a programme to develop and establish sero-diagnostic reference materials for the WHO's List of Priority Pathogens,that heavily overlaps with the UK Vaccine Network Priority Emerging Diseases.&nbsp;&nbsp; NIBSC has prepared an International Standard for anti-Ebola virus antibodies that was established by the WHO's Expert Committee for Biological Standardisation in October 2017.&nbsp; An anti-Zika virus antibody standard will be reviewed in October 2018 as well as a preliminary report about an anti-MERS-CoV antibody material. Whilst these candidate materials have been through detailed in vitro analyses in international collaborative studies, without additional competitively awarded funding from InnovateUK, it would not have been possible to establish that the serological reference materials contained specific antibodies capable of preventing infection or disease in in vivo model systems.&nbsp; They are now established as serological vaccine standards and available globally. This previous Innovate UK funding, (for 1 year) enabled NIBSC to collaborate with Dstl and PHE laboratories at Porton Down.&nbsp;&nbsp; Their high level bio-containment facilities allowed these critical protection studies to be performed and demonstrated that serological reference materials against Ebola, Zika and MersCoV could protect against these lethal diseases.&nbsp; Having established an effective collaboration between the 3 centres, NIBSC is now seeking a further 2 years funding to build on this momentum, utilising this PLATFORM TECHNOLOGY to prepare a further 9 candidate sero-diagnostic reference preparations, one each for the remaining UK Vaccine Network Priority Emerging Diseases, and establish whether these materials can protect in appropriate in vivo model systems.&nbsp; If materials protect, then they add to the list of serological vaccine standards and thus accelerate vaccine development against Chikungunya, CCHF, Marburg, Lassa Fever, Nipah, Hanta, Rift Valley Fever viruses and bacterial infections Q Fever and Plague.","2018-09-01","2022-02-28",1999053,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971613"
"88","971613",2,"Serological Vaccine Standards for Emerging Diseases","The development of safe, effective and economically affordable vaccines against Emerging Diseases, such as Ebola and Zika, would provide powerful tools not only to prevent re-emergence of these diseases in countries where they are endemic, but also enable swift and effective control of outbreaks initiated by infected returning travellers.&nbsp; However, these infectious agents can only be handled under high levels of bio-security, making the cost of research on these agents prohibitive for most commercial organisations.&nbsp; The availability of established standards and reference materials accelerates the development of licenced vaccines.&nbsp; Where there is robust evidence that convalescent serum (ie serum obtained from someone who has recovered from an infectious disease) protects against reinfection, then the preparation and distribution of serum standards that have been demonstrated to confer protection against infection is hugely beneficial.&nbsp; These serum standards facilitate pre-clinical and early clinical development and selection of the most promising experimental vaccine without the need for expensive studies under bio-containment, as the serum standard provides as in vitro reference marker for serological protection. NIBSC is the global leader in the development of World Health Organisation (WHO) established International Standards and reference materials for biological medicines such as vaccines.&nbsp; At the request of the WHO, NIBSC is undertaking a programme to develop and establish sero-diagnostic reference materials for the WHO's List of Priority Pathogens,that heavily overlaps with the UK Vaccine Network Priority Emerging Diseases.&nbsp;&nbsp; NIBSC has prepared an International Standard for anti-Ebola virus antibodies that was established by the WHO's Expert Committee for Biological Standardisation in October 2017.&nbsp; An anti-Zika virus antibody standard will be reviewed in October 2018 as well as a preliminary report about an anti-MERS-CoV antibody material. Whilst these candidate materials have been through detailed in vitro analyses in international collaborative studies, without additional competitively awarded funding from InnovateUK, it would not have been possible to establish that the serological reference materials contained specific antibodies capable of preventing infection or disease in in vivo model systems.&nbsp; They are now established as serological vaccine standards and available globally. This previous Innovate UK funding, (for 1 year) enabled NIBSC to collaborate with Dstl and PHE laboratories at Porton Down.&nbsp;&nbsp; Their high level bio-containment facilities allowed these critical protection studies to be performed and demonstrated that serological reference materials against Ebola, Zika and MersCoV could protect against these lethal diseases.&nbsp; Having established an effective collaboration between the 3 centres, NIBSC is now seeking a further 2 years funding to build on this momentum, utilising this PLATFORM TECHNOLOGY to prepare a further 9 candidate sero-diagnostic reference preparations, one each for the remaining UK Vaccine Network Priority Emerging Diseases, and establish whether these materials can protect in appropriate in vivo model systems.&nbsp; If materials protect, then they add to the list of serological vaccine standards and thus accelerate vaccine development against Chikungunya, CCHF, Marburg, Lassa Fever, Nipah, Hanta, Rift Valley Fever viruses and bacterial infections Q Fever and Plague.","2018-09-01","2022-03-31",1999053,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971613"
"89","971614",2,"CCHF Vaccine manufacturing and First in Human Clinical Trial","Crimean Congo Haemorraghic Fever virus (CCHFv) is a severe haemorraghic tick-borne disease which causes outbreaks with a case fatality rate of 10-40%. Ticks infect livestock, mainly sheep, although many species may be infected, and humans may be infected by tick bites or contact with infected animal body fluids after which human to human transmission may occur. The disease is endemic in Africa, the Balkans, the Middle East and parts of Asia and no vaccine is available for either humans or livestock. The Jenner Institute has developed the replication-deficient simian adenoviral vector platform ChAdOx1and ChAdOx2 to produce vaccines against a number of outbreak pathogens. ChAdOx-vectored vaccines are highly immunogenic for both humoral and cell-mediated responses after a single dose, can be produced in a highly efficient manufacturing process and can be thermostabilised. Efficacy in livestock against Rift Valley Fever virus and safety in humans in a number of different vaccine programmes has been demonstrated. A ChAdOx2 CCHF vaccine has been produced and is completely protective in a mouse CCHF disease model after a single dose of the vaccine. We now propose to use established vaccine manufacturing technology to produce a cGMP batch of ChAdOx2 CCHF and conduct a First in Human clinical trial. These are the next steps required for clinical development and eventual licensure and use of a safe, effective, single dose vaccine against CCHF.","2018-09-01","2021-12-31",1999524,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971614"
"90","971614",2,"CCHF Vaccine manufacturing and First in Human Clinical Trial","Crimean Congo Haemorraghic Fever virus (CCHFv) is a severe haemorraghic tick-borne disease which causes outbreaks with a case fatality rate of 10-40%. Ticks infect livestock, mainly sheep, although many species may be infected, and humans may be infected by tick bites or contact with infected animal body fluids after which human to human transmission may occur. The disease is endemic in Africa, the Balkans, the Middle East and parts of Asia and no vaccine is available for either humans or livestock. The Jenner Institute has developed the replication-deficient simian adenoviral vector platform ChAdOx1and ChAdOx2 to produce vaccines against a number of outbreak pathogens. ChAdOx-vectored vaccines are highly immunogenic for both humoral and cell-mediated responses after a single dose, can be produced in a highly efficient manufacturing process and can be thermostabilised. Efficacy in livestock against Rift Valley Fever virus and safety in humans in a number of different vaccine programmes has been demonstrated. A ChAdOx2 CCHF vaccine has been produced and is completely protective in a mouse CCHF disease model after a single dose of the vaccine. We now propose to use established vaccine manufacturing technology to produce a cGMP batch of ChAdOx2 CCHF and conduct a First in Human clinical trial. These are the next steps required for clinical development and eventual licensure and use of a safe, effective, single dose vaccine against CCHF.","2018-09-01","2021-12-31",1999524,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971614"
"91","971615",2,"Clinical Stage multivalent vaccines against viral haemorrhagic fevers","Since the 2013-2016 Ebola virus (Zaire Ebolavirus/EBOZ) outbreak, there have been a number of other documented outbreaks of lethal haemorrhagic fever caused by filoviruses and arenaviruses. It is generally accepted that either a mixture of monovalent vaccines or, preferably, a multivalent vaccine, will be required to confer protective immunity against viral haemorrhagic fever. The costs of developing individual vaccines against filoviruses and an arenavirus (Lassa virus (LASV)) will be prohibitively high, and there is a risk that funding will not be found to develop individual vaccines, leaving the populations in low and middle income countries at risk.&nbsp;&nbsp; Our vaccine modality of choice, for vaccine manufacture, is a chimpanzee adenoviral vector (ChAdOx1). ChAds have been administered in clinical trials to over 6,500 vaccinees, across eight disease areas, with an excellent safety profile in adults, children and babies. Single dose regimens are highly immunogenic, generating humoral and cellular immunity. Importantly, these vaccines can be thermostabilised by a simple process, removing the need for a cold chain storage and greatly reducing delivery costs. Of note, the emergency response to Ebola led to large-scale manufacture of viral vectors and there is now an accumulated manufacturing experience for viral vectored vaccines at scale.&nbsp; To reduce the costs and increase the utility of vaccines against emerging pathogens, we took a stepwise and iterative approach, in our stream I funding, toward the design and testing of multivalent vaccines against key outbreak pathogens; filoviruses (EBOZ, SUDV, MARV) and LASV. By the end of our programme we had developed, tested and produced scalable, immunogenic, and protective multivalent viral vectored vaccines for deployment against Filoviruses and Lassa fever.&nbsp;&nbsp; We now aim to rapidly translate these promising preclinical vaccines into clinical trials. This is facilitated by the close ties to an in-house bio-manufacturing facility (CBF), an experienced team of personnel at the Centre for Clinical Vaccinology and Tropical Medicine (CCVTM), adept at progressing first-in-human clinical trials and collaborations in-situ in Africa to clinically assess candidate vaccines in relevant settings. We seek to build on this experience and progress our early pre-clinical work to clinical development and to test a multivalent viral vectored vaccine in a first-in-human Phase I clinical trial.","2018-09-01","2022-03-31",2109777,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971615"
"92","971615",2,"Clinical Stage multivalent vaccines against viral haemorrhagic fevers","Since the 2013-2016 Ebola virus (Zaire Ebolavirus/EBOZ) outbreak, there have been a number of other documented outbreaks of lethal haemorrhagic fever caused by filoviruses and arenaviruses. It is generally accepted that either a mixture of monovalent vaccines or, preferably, a multivalent vaccine, will be required to confer protective immunity against viral haemorrhagic fever. The costs of developing individual vaccines against filoviruses and an arenavirus (Lassa virus (LASV)) will be prohibitively high, and there is a risk that funding will not be found to develop individual vaccines, leaving the populations in low and middle income countries at risk.&nbsp;&nbsp; Our vaccine modality of choice, for vaccine manufacture, is a chimpanzee adenoviral vector (ChAdOx1). ChAds have been administered in clinical trials to over 6,500 vaccinees, across eight disease areas, with an excellent safety profile in adults, children and babies. Single dose regimens are highly immunogenic, generating humoral and cellular immunity. Importantly, these vaccines can be thermostabilised by a simple process, removing the need for a cold chain storage and greatly reducing delivery costs. Of note, the emergency response to Ebola led to large-scale manufacture of viral vectors and there is now an accumulated manufacturing experience for viral vectored vaccines at scale.&nbsp; To reduce the costs and increase the utility of vaccines against emerging pathogens, we took a stepwise and iterative approach, in our stream I funding, toward the design and testing of multivalent vaccines against key outbreak pathogens; filoviruses (EBOZ, SUDV, MARV) and LASV. By the end of our programme we had developed, tested and produced scalable, immunogenic, and protective multivalent viral vectored vaccines for deployment against Filoviruses and Lassa fever.&nbsp;&nbsp; We now aim to rapidly translate these promising preclinical vaccines into clinical trials. This is facilitated by the close ties to an in-house bio-manufacturing facility (CBF), an experienced team of personnel at the Centre for Clinical Vaccinology and Tropical Medicine (CCVTM), adept at progressing first-in-human clinical trials and collaborations in-situ in Africa to clinically assess candidate vaccines in relevant settings. We seek to build on this experience and progress our early pre-clinical work to clinical development and to test a multivalent viral vectored vaccine in a first-in-human Phase I clinical trial.","2018-09-01","2022-03-31",2414777,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971615"
"93","971616",2,"Clinical trial of a DIOS Trivalent Haemorrhagic Fever Vaccine (DIOS-HFVac3)","Bringing together cutting edge technologies, we have generated a new vaccine candidate that protects against 3 highly contagious African Haemorrhagic Fever Viruses (HFV), which have significant global epidemic potential. With this technology, we can achieve dramatic improvements to the breadth of protection conferred by vaccines against emerging and re-emerging pathogens. Our DIOS (Digitally designed, Immune Optimised and Selected) technology provides the broadest possible protection against viral variants to limit future outbreaks of highly variable pathogens. In our Innovate Stage 1 project, we achieved clear proof-of-concept for this platform, moving quickly from demonstrating DIOS platform immunogenicity to generate a unique trivalent vaccine candidate. In a second Stage 1 project, animals vaccinated against three diverse viruses - Lassa, Ebola and Marburg were protected from lethal infection. Our top candidate next generation DIOS antigens, targeting these 3 diverse families of HFVs, gave the broadest immune responses and proved stable in the MVA vaccine vector. In the Innovate Stage 2 project we propose to take this to next stage, performing a “first-in-human” clinical trial of DIOS vaccine inserts to demonstrate the safety profile of the DIOS-HFVac3 candidate and its improved breadth of the immune responses in human volunteers.&nbsp;&nbsp; We have proven that DIOS inserts based on both the DNA vaccine vector pEVAC and the highly immunogenic poxvirus vaccine vector, Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA), provide protection from infection. MVA is a safe vector that was used to successfully immunise against smallpox. It is well characterised and has further been modified as a versatile vaccine vector for many pathogens. MVA additionally provides 100% vaccine efficacy against Monkeypox, a disease which is currently causing outbreaks in humans in the same regions where DIOS-HFVac3 would be deployed as a vaccine. It has been demonstrated that cold chain independent vaccine lots of MVA can be produced and we would aim to achieve this with both the pEVAC and MVA DIOS inserts for rapid deployment wherever outbreaks may occur.&nbsp; Our human clinical trial design will have two arms, one with MVA/DIOS-HFVac3 alone, and the other with co-administration of MVA expressing a fourth HFV found in Africa, namely Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV). In collaboration with the MVA-CCHF Innovate clinical trial consortium, GMP lots of MVA-CCHF, made to the same standards as MVA-DIOS-HFVac3, will be used for co-administration. This represents a unique opportunity to evaluate if a tetravalent human VHF vaccine will provide equivalent immunogenicity, and potentially protect humans against 4 VHF pathogens (Lassa, Ebola, Marburg, CCHF) as well as Monkeypox.&nbsp; 
&nbsp;5. Description of Proposed Idea/Technology","2018-09-01","2021-03-31",1999926,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971616"
"94","971616",2,"Clinical trial of a DIOS Trivalent Haemorrhagic Fever Vaccine (DIOS-HFVac3)","Bringing together cutting edge technologies, we have generated a new vaccine candidate that protects against 3 highly contagious African Haemorrhagic Fever Viruses (HFV), which have significant global epidemic potential. With this technology, we can achieve dramatic improvements to the breadth of protection conferred by vaccines against emerging and re-emerging pathogens. Our DIOS (Digitally designed, Immune Optimised and Selected) technology provides the broadest possible protection against viral variants to limit future outbreaks of highly variable pathogens. In our Innovate Stage 1 project, we achieved clear proof-of-concept for this platform, moving quickly from demonstrating DIOS platform immunogenicity to generate a unique trivalent vaccine candidate. In a second Stage 1 project, animals vaccinated against three diverse viruses - Lassa, Ebola and Marburg were protected from lethal infection. Our top candidate next generation DIOS antigens, targeting these 3 diverse families of HFVs, gave the broadest immune responses and proved stable in the MVA vaccine vector. In the Innovate Stage 2 project we propose to take this to next stage, performing a “first-in-human” clinical trial of DIOS vaccine inserts to demonstrate the safety profile of the DIOS-HFVac3 candidate and its improved breadth of the immune responses in human volunteers.&nbsp;&nbsp; We have proven that DIOS inserts based on both the DNA vaccine vector pEVAC and the highly immunogenic poxvirus vaccine vector, Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA), provide protection from infection. MVA is a safe vector that was used to successfully immunise against smallpox. It is well characterised and has further been modified as a versatile vaccine vector for many pathogens. MVA additionally provides 100% vaccine efficacy against Monkeypox, a disease which is currently causing outbreaks in humans in the same regions where DIOS-HFVac3 would be deployed as a vaccine. It has been demonstrated that cold chain independent vaccine lots of MVA can be produced and we would aim to achieve this with both the pEVAC and MVA DIOS inserts for rapid deployment wherever outbreaks may occur.&nbsp; Our human clinical trial design will have two arms, one with MVA/DIOS-HFVac3 alone, and the other with co-administration of MVA expressing a fourth HFV found in Africa, namely Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV). In collaboration with the MVA-CCHF Innovate clinical trial consortium, GMP lots of MVA-CCHF, made to the same standards as MVA-DIOS-HFVac3, will be used for co-administration. This represents a unique opportunity to evaluate if a tetravalent human VHF vaccine will provide equivalent immunogenicity, and potentially protect humans against 4 VHF pathogens (Lassa, Ebola, Marburg, CCHF) as well as Monkeypox.&nbsp; 
&nbsp;5. Description of Proposed Idea/Technology","2018-09-01","2021-12-31",1999926,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971616"
"95","971617",2,"EML-VAC: Multivalent replicon vaccine against Ebola, Marburg and Lassa viruses","A multivalent haemorrhagic fever vaccine based on synthetic replicating ribonucleic acid would provide one of the fastest and most cost-effective approaches to stop viral outbreaks at their source. This affords significant advantages over more conventional vaccine approaches such as viral vectors, and attenuated pathogens and would be safer in individuals unable to receive live attenuated vaccines (e.g. children and the immunocompromised ). Our program aims to develop a multivalent vaccine against the most common human viral haemorrhagic fevers ( Ebola, Marburg and Lassa fever virus). The choice of targets is based on strong scientific evidence that gene-based approaches can protect against infection in preclinical models. This vaccine may also find utility as a booster that can be used in combination with existing vaccines (e.g. rVSV-EBOV). The fully synthetic manufacture and ease of production provides the potential to produce hundreds of thousands of doses within a matter of weeks where the individual vaccine components targeting different haemorrhagic viruses can easily be combined. This may be critical to the global response against emerging haemorrhagic viral infections, as the nature of the next outbreak cannot be reliably predicted. In this respect the proposed multivalent vaccine has potential not only to protect against multiple known haemorrhagic viruses but is also more likely to show cross-protection against novel variants that may arise in the future. In Part 1 of this project (now complete) we successfully completed the heavy lifting required to move our RNA platform from a research process through to fully established robust and validated manufacturing process, confirming the potency of the produced product in preclinical models. In this Part 2 project we will manufacture clinical grade material (GMP), conduct the required preclinical toxicology and early evaluation of the vaccine in a phase I human clinical trial designed to assess the safety and immunogenicity of our pan-haemorrhagic fever vaccine. Our ability to deliver on the aggressive timelines required to move from manufacture through to completion of a first in human clinical trial within two-year grant funding period is only possible due to the robustness and speed of our manufacturing process and the unique competency of the assembled team in translating vaccine concepts from the bench to the bedside . Ultimately our vision is to use our vaccine platform to ensure UK preparedness for any eventual pandemic and to make vaccines globally available in the event of any outbreak situation. Our approach will ensure appropriate costing for low and middle-income countries and be readily available to organizations focused on global health (e.g. MSF and WHO): these groups have historically been the first to detect, and/or respond to an outbreak, and are therefore ideally positioned to assist in implementing any vaccination strategy. Our Target Product Profile (TPP) is a stable multivalent vaccine that can elicit protective immunity against the most common human viral haemorrhagic fevers following one or two immunisation across all populations, has potential for boosting in the absence of anti-vector immunity, and can be rapidly manufactured at low cost.","2018-10-01","2021-12-31",1999712,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971617"
"96","971617",2,"EML-VAC: Multivalent replicon vaccine against Ebola, Marburg and Lassa viruses","A multivalent haemorrhagic fever vaccine based on synthetic replicating ribonucleic acid would provide one of the fastest and most cost-effective approaches to stop viral outbreaks at their source. This affords significant advantages over more conventional vaccine approaches such as viral vectors, and attenuated pathogens and would be safer in individuals unable to receive live attenuated vaccines (e.g. children and the immunocompromised ). Our program aims to develop a multivalent vaccine against the most common human viral haemorrhagic fevers ( Ebola, Marburg and Lassa fever virus). The choice of targets is based on strong scientific evidence that gene-based approaches can protect against infection in preclinical models. This vaccine may also find utility as a booster that can be used in combination with existing vaccines (e.g. rVSV-EBOV). The fully synthetic manufacture and ease of production provides the potential to produce hundreds of thousands of doses within a matter of weeks where the individual vaccine components targeting different haemorrhagic viruses can easily be combined. This may be critical to the global response against emerging haemorrhagic viral infections, as the nature of the next outbreak cannot be reliably predicted. In this respect the proposed multivalent vaccine has potential not only to protect against multiple known haemorrhagic viruses but is also more likely to show cross-protection against novel variants that may arise in the future. In Part 1 of this project (now complete) we successfully completed the heavy lifting required to move our RNA platform from a research process through to fully established robust and validated manufacturing process, confirming the potency of the produced product in preclinical models. In this Part 2 project we will manufacture clinical grade material (GMP), conduct the required preclinical toxicology and early evaluation of the vaccine in a phase I human clinical trial designed to assess the safety and immunogenicity of our pan-haemorrhagic fever vaccine. Our ability to deliver on the aggressive timelines required to move from manufacture through to completion of a first in human clinical trial within two-year grant funding period is only possible due to the robustness and speed of our manufacturing process and the unique competency of the assembled team in translating vaccine concepts from the bench to the bedside . Ultimately our vision is to use our vaccine platform to ensure UK preparedness for any eventual pandemic and to make vaccines globally available in the event of any outbreak situation. Our approach will ensure appropriate costing for low and middle-income countries and be readily available to organizations focused on global health (e.g. MSF and WHO): these groups have historically been the first to detect, and/or respond to an outbreak, and are therefore ideally positioned to assist in implementing any vaccination strategy. Our Target Product Profile (TPP) is a stable multivalent vaccine that can elicit protective immunity against the most common human viral haemorrhagic fevers following one or two immunisation across all populations, has potential for boosting in the absence of anti-vector immunity, and can be rapidly manufactured at low cost.","2018-10-01","2021-12-31",1999712,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971617"
"97","971618",2,"Advancement of a cost-effective MVA-based Hantavirus vaccine (HantaVacc).","&nbsp;&nbsp; Seoul virus (SEOV) and Hantaan virus (HTNV) are widespread pathogens maintained in rodents and transmitted to humans in aerosols of rodent excreta. Human infection results in Haemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome (HFRS), a key burden of disease in many low and middle income countries with between 100,000-150,000 cases documented worldwide per year. Whilst other Hantaviruses exist, they cause more infrequent types of disease or are geographically restricted to the Americas, the need for vaccine intervention against them is less urgent than for SEOV and HTNV.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; During the 12 month Stream 1 funded project, we developed a multi-valent vaccine, termed MVA-HantaVacc, based on the vector Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) containing a recombinant mosaic nucleoprotein&nbsp; of SEOV and HTNV. MVA-based vaccines are efficient and cost-effective; they offer many advantages including a proven safety record, the ability to elicit both cellular and humoral immunity, thermostability and ease of manufacture. We then demonstrated that MVA-HantaVacc is immunogenic in mice. A strong antigen-specific recall T-cell response was observed along with production of Hantavirus-specific antibodies. In the absence of a suitable laboratory disease model of SEOV or HTNV infection, vaccine efficacy was assessed in type-I interferon receptor knockout mice (strain A129) which can be experimentally infected with SEOV. Animals immunised with MVA-HantaVacc demonstrated clearance of virus from key tissues in contrast to control groups. This is the first demonstration of a successful research grade MVA Hantavirus vaccine.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In order to further progress MVA-HantaVacc through a Phase I human clinical trial, we will first re-engineer the Hantavirus nucleoprotein antigens into a GMP-compliant MVA vector. We will then demonstrate bioequivalence of the new vaccine with the 'research grade' vaccine, before manufacturing&nbsp; a GMP batch which will undergo stringent quality control and toxicity testing. Once complete, MVA-HantaVacc will enter into a Phase I clinical trial to test safety and immunogenicity in healthy human volunteers. We have already started discussi","2018-09-01","2022-03-31",2e+06,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971618"
"98","971618",2,"Advancement of a cost-effective MVA-based Hantavirus vaccine (HantaVacc).","&nbsp;&nbsp; Seoul virus (SEOV) and Hantaan virus (HTNV) are widespread pathogens maintained in rodents and transmitted to humans in aerosols of rodent excreta. Human infection results in Haemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome (HFRS), a key burden of disease in many low and middle income countries with between 100,000-150,000 cases documented worldwide per year. Whilst other Hantaviruses exist, they cause more infrequent types of disease or are geographically restricted to the Americas, the need for vaccine intervention against them is less urgent than for SEOV and HTNV.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; During the 12 month Stream 1 funded project, we developed a multi-valent vaccine, termed MVA-HantaVacc, based on the vector Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) containing a recombinant mosaic nucleoprotein&nbsp; of SEOV and HTNV. MVA-based vaccines are efficient and cost-effective; they offer many advantages including a proven safety record, the ability to elicit both cellular and humoral immunity, thermostability and ease of manufacture. We then demonstrated that MVA-HantaVacc is immunogenic in mice. A strong antigen-specific recall T-cell response was observed along with production of Hantavirus-specific antibodies. In the absence of a suitable laboratory disease model of SEOV or HTNV infection, vaccine efficacy was assessed in type-I interferon receptor knockout mice (strain A129) which can be experimentally infected with SEOV. Animals immunised with MVA-HantaVacc demonstrated clearance of virus from key tissues in contrast to control groups. This is the first demonstration of a successful research grade MVA Hantavirus vaccine.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In order to further progress MVA-HantaVacc through a Phase I human clinical trial, we will first re-engineer the Hantavirus nucleoprotein antigens into a GMP-compliant MVA vector. We will then demonstrate bioequivalence of the new vaccine with the 'research grade' vaccine, before manufacturing&nbsp; a GMP batch which will undergo stringent quality control and toxicity testing. Once complete, MVA-HantaVacc will enter into a Phase I clinical trial to test safety and immunogenicity in healthy human volunteers. We have already started discussi","2018-09-01","2022-03-31",2e+06,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971618"
"99","971619",2,"Development of a novel vaccine to protect against Q fever epidemics: late stage preclinical formulation and progression to clinical trial","Development of a novel vaccine to protect against Q fever epidemics: late stage preclinical formulation and progression to clinical trial. This project aims to progress a novel vaccine against Q fever (Coxiella burnetii), developed during an Innovate UK stream 1 project, to clinical development, by identifying the minimal formulation required for protection, and includes production of the pre-GMP starting material in an approved GMP production facility. Our novel vaccine against Q fever uses a potent vaccine delivery technology suitable for outbreak situations in low-income countries. Q fever is a highly contagious bacterial disease, currently regarded as a global health concern and a potential outbreak pathogens by the UK government, the CDC and WHO for several reasons: 1. It causes a range of disease from acute to potentially fatal chronic infection. 2. Extensive and costly antibiotic use may be required during outbreaks. 3. Chronic Q fever is very difficult to treat. 4. The symptoms are non-specific and thus Q fever is difficult to diagnose. 5. Q fever has a worldwide distribution, particularly affecting low-income countries. The number of reported cases is likely an underestimation. A large epidemic occurred recently in the Netherlands (2007 to 2010) that led to several deaths and long-term illnesses. 6. The bacterium is unusually resistant to drying and to heat, it can survive for years, and extremely low infectious doses (down to a single bacterium) are sufficient to cause infection. It is therefore also a potential bioweapon. The inactivated whole cell vaccine licensed in Australia induces severe adverse effects, particularly in pre-exposed individuals (a phenomenon known as sensitization), and thus requires pre-vaccination screening, not suitable for extensive use particularly in low-income countries and for outbreaks. The protective efficacy of conventional vaccines based on proteins in adjuvant is very limited, in part due to the weakness of this formulation in inducing the cellular immune responses that have been linked to resolution of Q fever infection. Our novel vaccine is based on the judicious use of a highly immunogenic replication-incompetent viral vector, able to induce the desired T-cell responses without the side effects of the whole cell vaccine. The viral vaccine technology is currently used for developing new vaccines against several infectious diseases such as Ebola, malaria, influenza, HIV, TB, capsular group B meningococcus and plague. It is particularly suitable for diseases for which cellular immune responses are required for protection, as is the case for Q fever. We have created vectored Q fever vaccine candidates, and demonstrated that a single dose injection of three or five components induces strong T-cell immune responses. A combination of three antigens was able to reduce Q fever infection in a mouse model.&nbsp; In this follow on project, we will identify the minimal protective antigen composition responsible for the reduction of infection, design and produce the clinically relevant vector suitable for human use. The pre-GMP (good manufacturing practice) starting material will then be produced, ready for GMP production and phase I trial. Our group has expertise in progressing vectored based vaccines against bacterial pathogens to GMP production and phase I trial.&nbsp;","2018-09-01","2022-03-31",1054907,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971619"
"100","971619",2,"Development of a novel vaccine to protect against Q fever epidemics: late stage preclinical formulation and progression to clinical trial","Development of a novel vaccine to protect against Q fever epidemics: late stage preclinical formulation and progression to clinical trial. This project aims to progress a novel vaccine against Q fever (Coxiella burnetii), developed during an Innovate UK stream 1 project, to clinical development, by identifying the minimal formulation required for protection, and includes production of the pre-GMP starting material in an approved GMP production facility. Our novel vaccine against Q fever uses a potent vaccine delivery technology suitable for outbreak situations in low-income countries. Q fever is a highly contagious bacterial disease, currently regarded as a global health concern and a potential outbreak pathogens by the UK government, the CDC and WHO for several reasons: 1. It causes a range of disease from acute to potentially fatal chronic infection. 2. Extensive and costly antibiotic use may be required during outbreaks. 3. Chronic Q fever is very difficult to treat. 4. The symptoms are non-specific and thus Q fever is difficult to diagnose. 5. Q fever has a worldwide distribution, particularly affecting low-income countries. The number of reported cases is likely an underestimation. A large epidemic occurred recently in the Netherlands (2007 to 2010) that led to several deaths and long-term illnesses. 6. The bacterium is unusually resistant to drying and to heat, it can survive for years, and extremely low infectious doses (down to a single bacterium) are sufficient to cause infection. It is therefore also a potential bioweapon. The inactivated whole cell vaccine licensed in Australia induces severe adverse effects, particularly in pre-exposed individuals (a phenomenon known as sensitization), and thus requires pre-vaccination screening, not suitable for extensive use particularly in low-income countries and for outbreaks. The protective efficacy of conventional vaccines based on proteins in adjuvant is very limited, in part due to the weakness of this formulation in inducing the cellular immune responses that have been linked to resolution of Q fever infection. Our novel vaccine is based on the judicious use of a highly immunogenic replication-incompetent viral vector, able to induce the desired T-cell responses without the side effects of the whole cell vaccine. The viral vaccine technology is currently used for developing new vaccines against several infectious diseases such as Ebola, malaria, influenza, HIV, TB, capsular group B meningococcus and plague. It is particularly suitable for diseases for which cellular immune responses are required for protection, as is the case for Q fever. We have created vectored Q fever vaccine candidates, and demonstrated that a single dose injection of three or five components induces strong T-cell immune responses. A combination of three antigens was able to reduce Q fever infection in a mouse model.&nbsp; In this follow on project, we will identify the minimal protective antigen composition responsible for the reduction of infection, design and produce the clinically relevant vector suitable for human use. The pre-GMP (good manufacturing practice) starting material will then be produced, ready for GMP production and phase I trial. Our group has expertise in progressing vectored based vaccines against bacterial pathogens to GMP production and phase I trial.&nbsp;","2018-09-01","2022-03-31",1162475,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=971619"
"101","972211",2,"Rapid, simple manufacture and clinical evaluation of an oral plague vaccine","As recent disease outbreaks show, the world needs to be faster and better at developing, manufacturing, testing and distributing vaccines. Prokarium, a UK-based vaccine development company focusing on oral vaccines, can move from bench to clinic 6-12 months faster compared to most injectable vaccines, use the same manufacturing process to produce a wide range of vaccines, cut costs by up to 70% and clinically test its oral vaccines under very simple out-patient conditions. Prokarium’s delivery strain has established a strong safety record in 10 phase 1 and 2 clinical trials in 471 volunteers including 101 children. In this project Prokarium will clinically trial its next generation vaccine platform ‘Vaxonella’, which when commercialised can be distributed at temperatures of up to 40 C for at least 12 weeks and which in emergencies can be self-administered without the need for medical personnel. These are the vaccine characteristics needed to combat serious diseases and potential epidemics such as plague caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis. Historically plague was responsible for several epidemics, including the Black Death, which killed over 50 million people in Europe in the late medieval period. Today plague still kills people and in recent years the number of countries where plague is endemic increased, resulting in the World Health Organization labelling it a re-emerging disease. Coupled with the risk of future antibiotic resistant strains of Y. pestis arising, and its potential as an aerosol-delivered bioterrorism weapon, there is a need to develop an effective vaccine. An ideal plague vaccine must be designed for use in low- and medium-income countries to immunise high risk populations (e.g. Madagascar, DRC, etc.) on a seasonal basis and to rapidly distribute in response to an outbreak caused by major disturbances such as floods or earthquakes when the reservoir populations are disturbed. Prokarium’s Vaxonella platform is based on live strains of Salmonella bacteria which are weakened so that they cannot cause disease. The Salmonella are taken orally as a capsule or liquid resuspension for children, they transit the stomach into the small intestine where they actively enter through the gut lining into the antigen-presenting cells of the immune system. The Salmonella to be used in this project have been programmed to express two protein antigens from Y. pestis from within the body’s own immune cells. This targeted vaccination means all arms of immunity are triggered including the first line of defence, namely mucosal immunity. Also, manufacturing is up to 70% cheaper because costly purification needed for injectables is eliminated. Prokarium has already successfully tested a plague vaccine in mice. Now it will confirm that an improved vaccine can protect mice against Y. pestis, then rapidly manufacture a liquid suspension, and then test it on human volunteers in a clinical trial, where the safety and immune response will be measured. This will provide information to support further development of the plague vaccine and crucially be the first proof of concept of the next generation Vaxonella platform that could transform the way vaccines are developed, manufactured and distributed.","2016-10-01","2019-12-31",1035557,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972211"
"102","972211",2,"Rapid, simple manufacture and clinical evaluation of an oral plague vaccine","As recent disease outbreaks show, the world needs to be faster and better at developing, manufacturing, testing and distributing vaccines. Prokarium, a UK-based vaccine development company focusing on oral vaccines, can move from bench to clinic 6-12 months faster compared to most injectable vaccines, use the same manufacturing process to produce a wide range of vaccines, cut costs by up to 70% and clinically test its oral vaccines under very simple out-patient conditions. Prokarium’s delivery strain has established a strong safety record in 10 phase 1 and 2 clinical trials in 471 volunteers including 101 children. In this project Prokarium will clinically trial its next generation vaccine platform ‘Vaxonella’, which when commercialised can be distributed at temperatures of up to 40 C for at least 12 weeks and which in emergencies can be self-administered without the need for medical personnel. These are the vaccine characteristics needed to combat serious diseases and potential epidemics such as plague caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis. Historically plague was responsible for several epidemics, including the Black Death, which killed over 50 million people in Europe in the late medieval period. Today plague still kills people and in recent years the number of countries where plague is endemic increased, resulting in the World Health Organization labelling it a re-emerging disease. Coupled with the risk of future antibiotic resistant strains of Y. pestis arising, and its potential as an aerosol-delivered bioterrorism weapon, there is a need to develop an effective vaccine. An ideal plague vaccine must be designed for use in low- and medium-income countries to immunise high risk populations (e.g. Madagascar, DRC, etc.) on a seasonal basis and to rapidly distribute in response to an outbreak caused by major disturbances such as floods or earthquakes when the reservoir populations are disturbed. Prokarium’s Vaxonella platform is based on live strains of Salmonella bacteria which are weakened so that they cannot cause disease. The Salmonella are taken orally as a capsule or liquid resuspension for children, they transit the stomach into the small intestine where they actively enter through the gut lining into the antigen-presenting cells of the immune system. The Salmonella to be used in this project have been programmed to express two protein antigens from Y. pestis from within the body’s own immune cells. This targeted vaccination means all arms of immunity are triggered including the first line of defence, namely mucosal immunity. Also, manufacturing is up to 70% cheaper because costly purification needed for injectables is eliminated. Prokarium has already successfully tested a plague vaccine in mice. Now it will confirm that an improved vaccine can protect mice against Y. pestis, then rapidly manufacture a liquid suspension, and then test it on human volunteers in a clinical trial, where the safety and immune response will be measured. This will provide information to support further development of the plague vaccine and crucially be the first proof of concept of the next generation Vaxonella platform that could transform the way vaccines are developed, manufactured and distributed.","2016-10-01","2019-12-31",1035557,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972211"
"103","972212",2,"A phase I clinical trial of a Chikungunya vaccine using a single dose and no adjuvant","The aim of this proposal is to progress a novel Chikungunya vaccine to a phase I clinical trial. Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) infections are characterised by severe joint pain and fever during the acute phase and long-lasting debilitating arthralgia during the chronic phase. Aedes mosquitoes, the vectors transmitting CHIKV have undergone a dramatic expansion, causing CHIKV to become a global threat leading to long-term economic impacts in endemic countries. Development of an efficacious CHIKV vaccine is an achievable goal partly due to the low antigenic variability of the virus. An ideal vaccine should be safe, cheap, highly immunogenic, adjuvant-free and able to induce long-lasting immunity after a single dose. No vaccine is yet available for the prevention of CHIKV infection. Of approximately 23 experimental vaccines, only 2 are currently being tested in clinical trials. One vaccine consists of a virus-like particle that presents antigens in a similar array to those of a virus but without replicating, stimulating immune responses better than a non-particulate protein. However, this approach requires multiple injections to induce seroconversion and reach high antibody titres, increasing the costs, making logistics more complex and limiting use in low-income countries. Another approach consists on a recombinant live attenuated measles virus (MV) expressing surface CHIKV antigens. The vaccine has been shown to be immunogenic and safe in humans but it also requires two doses to induce good immune responses. The Jenner Institute has designed a new vaccine platform consisting on a chimpanzee adenoviral vector, ChAdOx2, which has already been manufactured to GMP and will enter clinical trials before the end of 2016. Chimpanzee adenoviruses are genetically stable, can be thermostabilised for ambient temperature storage and are suitable for use in all ages of the population. A similar simian adenoviral vector, ChAd3 expressing ebola antigens was shown to induce high titre neutralising antibody titres equivalent to those induced by the replication competent VSV-vectored Ebola vaccine that demonstrated 100% efficacy in a phase III trial. We are proposing to perform a phase I clinical trial to assess safety and immunogenicity of a single dose of a ChAdOx2 vaccine expressing chikungunya structural antigens: capsid and envelope glycoproteins. CHIKV structural antigens have been shown to stimulate the induction of protective antibodies. Our preliminaty results indicate that our CHIKV viral vectored vaccine is highly immunogenic in pre-clinical models and is able to stimulate high titres of neutralising antibodies after a single dose, similar to titres induced in infected people.","2016-10-01","2019-12-31",976757,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972212"
"104","972212",2,"A phase I clinical trial of a Chikungunya vaccine using a single dose and no adjuvant","The aim of this proposal is to progress a novel Chikungunya vaccine to a phase I clinical trial. Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) infections are characterised by severe joint pain and fever during the acute phase and long-lasting debilitating arthralgia during the chronic phase. Aedes mosquitoes, the vectors transmitting CHIKV have undergone a dramatic expansion, causing CHIKV to become a global threat leading to long-term economic impacts in endemic countries. Development of an efficacious CHIKV vaccine is an achievable goal partly due to the low antigenic variability of the virus. An ideal vaccine should be safe, cheap, highly immunogenic, adjuvant-free and able to induce long-lasting immunity after a single dose. No vaccine is yet available for the prevention of CHIKV infection. Of approximately 23 experimental vaccines, only 2 are currently being tested in clinical trials. One vaccine consists of a virus-like particle that presents antigens in a similar array to those of a virus but without replicating, stimulating immune responses better than a non-particulate protein. However, this approach requires multiple injections to induce seroconversion and reach high antibody titres, increasing the costs, making logistics more complex and limiting use in low-income countries. Another approach consists on a recombinant live attenuated measles virus (MV) expressing surface CHIKV antigens. The vaccine has been shown to be immunogenic and safe in humans but it also requires two doses to induce good immune responses. The Jenner Institute has designed a new vaccine platform consisting on a chimpanzee adenoviral vector, ChAdOx2, which has already been manufactured to GMP and will enter clinical trials before the end of 2016. Chimpanzee adenoviruses are genetically stable, can be thermostabilised for ambient temperature storage and are suitable for use in all ages of the population. A similar simian adenoviral vector, ChAd3 expressing ebola antigens was shown to induce high titre neutralising antibody titres equivalent to those induced by the replication competent VSV-vectored Ebola vaccine that demonstrated 100% efficacy in a phase III trial. We are proposing to perform a phase I clinical trial to assess safety and immunogenicity of a single dose of a ChAdOx2 vaccine expressing chikungunya structural antigens: capsid and envelope glycoproteins. CHIKV structural antigens have been shown to stimulate the induction of protective antibodies. Our preliminaty results indicate that our CHIKV viral vectored vaccine is highly immunogenic in pre-clinical models and is able to stimulate high titres of neutralising antibodies after a single dose, similar to titres induced in infected people.","2016-10-01","2019-12-31",976757,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972212"
"105","972213",2,"Phase I Study of a MVA based vaccine for Crimean Congo Heamoraghic fever","Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV) is a deadly human pathogen and is of the utmost seriousness of being both fast acting and highly lethal. The virus has repeatedly caused sporadic outbreaks with a fatality rate of up to 80% and is commonly known as the Asian Ebola. CCHFV is transmitted most commonly by ticks and contact with infected livestock in addition to human-to-human transmission. The incidence of human CCHF cases closely matches the geographical range of permissive ticks. The virus causes outbreaks in Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe. Ticks that are able to transmit this deadly disease are encroaching into northern Europe infecting grazing livestock which is the CCHFV reservoir and an important part of the tick life cycle. Unfortunately there are no available vaccines or therapeutics to this disease. Public Health England scientists have extensive experience of working with this pathogen and developed an experimental CCHF vaccine called MVA-GP. This was produced by engineering a safe vaccine virus (MVA) to produce a key component of the CCHFV. In 2013, PHE published the results of successful trials that showed their experimental vaccine to be 100% effective at protecting animals against challenge with CCHFV. PHE has received funding from the UK Govt to develop the vaccine for animal use to enable widespread protection of farm animals which is a major source of infection to humans. PHE are now applying for funding to prepare clinical grade MVA-GP vaccine so they can perform a small clinical study to demonstrate the vaccine is safe and has the potential of protecting humans against this deadly disease.","2016-10-01","2022-09-30",1008139,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972213"
"106","972213",2,"Phase I Study of a MVA based vaccine for Crimean Congo Heamoraghic fever","Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV) is a deadly human pathogen and is of the utmost seriousness of being both fast acting and highly lethal. The virus has repeatedly caused sporadic outbreaks with a fatality rate of up to 80% and is commonly known as the Asian Ebola. CCHFV is transmitted most commonly by ticks and contact with infected livestock in addition to human-to-human transmission. The incidence of human CCHF cases closely matches the geographical range of permissive ticks. The virus causes outbreaks in Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe. Ticks that are able to transmit this deadly disease are encroaching into northern Europe infecting grazing livestock which is the CCHFV reservoir and an important part of the tick life cycle. Unfortunately there are no available vaccines or therapeutics to this disease. Public Health England scientists have extensive experience of working with this pathogen and developed an experimental CCHF vaccine called MVA-GP. This was produced by engineering a safe vaccine virus (MVA) to produce a key component of the CCHFV. In 2013, PHE published the results of successful trials that showed their experimental vaccine to be 100% effective at protecting animals against challenge with CCHFV. PHE has received funding from the UK Govt to develop the vaccine for animal use to enable widespread protection of farm animals which is a major source of infection to humans. PHE are now applying for funding to prepare clinical grade MVA-GP vaccine so they can perform a small clinical study to demonstrate the vaccine is safe and has the potential of protecting humans against this deadly disease.","2016-10-01","2022-03-30",1106708,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972213"
"107","972214",2,"Addresing Efficacy of a Dengue vaccine candidate in a macaque challenge model","Dengue virus (DENV) infects 400 million people a year. It is a leading cause of illness and death in the tropics and subtropics and its incidence is geographically expanding. Dengue and Dengue Haemorrhagic Fever are caused by any one of four DENV serotypes transmitted by mosquitoes and no licensed vaccines to prevent infection have become available worldwide to tackle all DENV at once. A major challenge in developing a DENV vaccine is to overcome virus variability because immune responses mounted to one serotype are not relevant to protect against the other 3 DENV serotypes. Furthermore, patients that previously suffered from dengue are in high risk to develop a more aggressive form of the disease if they come into contact with a different DENV serotype, as they have non-neutralising DENV antibodies -a process known as Antibody Dependent Enhancement (ADE) that promote DENV infection in a second exposure. Top-leading vaccines (B-cell vaccines) focus on the production of neutralising antibodies (humoral immune response) but pose a great risk to induce ADE in vaccinees and require multiple doses of complex polyvalent vaccines, becoming expensive and difficult to deploy in low-income settings. Importantly, those vaccines disregard the capacity of the T-Cell cytotoxicity to clear viral-infected cells (cellular immunity) in which ADE is not a concern. To date, a DENV T-cell vaccine has not been developed yet. After three years of R&amp;D activities, we have designed and filed a patent (with Isis Innovation) of a set of T-Cell dengue vaccines, with the ability to recognise and mount strong cellular responses against highly conserved non-structural proteins across all four DENV serotypes. These DENV universal vaccines are contained in viral-vectored platforms such as Chimpanzee Adenovirus (ChAdOx1) and Poxvirus (MVA), which are highly immunogenic and safe in humans (i.e. they have been used in the latest Ebola Vaccine Trial in Oxford). The innovation of our development consists on the use of only one universal antigen to tackle all dengue serotypes and genotypes, using only two vaccine components and no adjuvant. This will contribute to the development of an affordable vaccine suitable for all endemic countries. Recently, we have assessed safety and T-cell immunogenicity elicited by one of our vaccines in Non Human Primates (NHP) at the Biomedical Primate Research Centre in the Netherlands. To date, NHP data have been essential for vaccines advancing to clinical trials, based on neutralizing activity in serum and/ or reduction of post-challenge viremia, which indicates to vaccine developers and regulatory agencies of the potential for efficacy in humans. Our goal now is to take forward our DENV vaccine development to explore its ability to confer efficacy protection against a reproducible DENV challenge model in macaques at the Caribbean Primate Reseach Center in Puerto Rico, where this DENV challenge is widely used to test DENV vaccine developments. Accomplishment of this goal will allow us to apply for a streamline funding to support a Phase-I clinical trial.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",488611,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972214"
"108","972214",2,"Addresing Efficacy of a Dengue vaccine candidate in a macaque challenge model","Dengue virus (DENV) infects 400 million people a year. It is a leading cause of illness and death in the tropics and subtropics and its incidence is geographically expanding. Dengue and Dengue Haemorrhagic Fever are caused by any one of four DENV serotypes transmitted by mosquitoes and no licensed vaccines to prevent infection have become available worldwide to tackle all DENV at once. A major challenge in developing a DENV vaccine is to overcome virus variability because immune responses mounted to one serotype are not relevant to protect against the other 3 DENV serotypes. Furthermore, patients that previously suffered from dengue are in high risk to develop a more aggressive form of the disease if they come into contact with a different DENV serotype, as they have non-neutralising DENV antibodies -a process known as Antibody Dependent Enhancement (ADE) that promote DENV infection in a second exposure. Top-leading vaccines (B-cell vaccines) focus on the production of neutralising antibodies (humoral immune response) but pose a great risk to induce ADE in vaccinees and require multiple doses of complex polyvalent vaccines, becoming expensive and difficult to deploy in low-income settings. Importantly, those vaccines disregard the capacity of the T-Cell cytotoxicity to clear viral-infected cells (cellular immunity) in which ADE is not a concern. To date, a DENV T-cell vaccine has not been developed yet. After three years of R&amp;D activities, we have designed and filed a patent (with Isis Innovation) of a set of T-Cell dengue vaccines, with the ability to recognise and mount strong cellular responses against highly conserved non-structural proteins across all four DENV serotypes. These DENV universal vaccines are contained in viral-vectored platforms such as Chimpanzee Adenovirus (ChAdOx1) and Poxvirus (MVA), which are highly immunogenic and safe in humans (i.e. they have been used in the latest Ebola Vaccine Trial in Oxford). The innovation of our development consists on the use of only one universal antigen to tackle all dengue serotypes and genotypes, using only two vaccine components and no adjuvant. This will contribute to the development of an affordable vaccine suitable for all endemic countries. Recently, we have assessed safety and T-cell immunogenicity elicited by one of our vaccines in Non Human Primates (NHP) at the Biomedical Primate Research Centre in the Netherlands. To date, NHP data have been essential for vaccines advancing to clinical trials, based on neutralizing activity in serum and/ or reduction of post-challenge viremia, which indicates to vaccine developers and regulatory agencies of the potential for efficacy in humans. Our goal now is to take forward our DENV vaccine development to explore its ability to confer efficacy protection against a reproducible DENV challenge model in macaques at the Caribbean Primate Reseach Center in Puerto Rico, where this DENV challenge is widely used to test DENV vaccine developments. Accomplishment of this goal will allow us to apply for a streamline funding to support a Phase-I clinical trial.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",488611,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972214"
"109","972215",2,"A single dose ambient temperature stable vaccine for the prevention of Zika virus","The last 12 months has seen rapid spread of the Zika virus from Africa and Asia to the Americas with over 30 countries in this region now reporting Zika virus infections. The majority of these south and central American territories have high levels of poverty. While infection with this virus is rarely fatal, the virus has been associated with causing Guillain-Barr&eacute; syndrome. This disease leads to long term damage of the nervous system. Furthermore, the virus is also associated with causing congenital microcephaly of new-born babies where the mother acquired a Zika virus infection during pregnancy. Consequently, there is a demand for a vaccine suitable to combat Zika virus infection particularly in low-income settings where infection rates are highest. We propose to develop a vaccine from a pre-existing attenuated live measles vector strain that has been administered safely to hundreds of millions of people, mostly children, without relevant safety concerns. Moreover, this system has recently been used for another experimental measles-vectored vaccine that was proven as safe and resulted in an excellent clinical response. This vector is genetically engineered to express Zika virus proteins intracellularly that will allow a single dose to be effective with the vaccine providing persistant durable immunity over the long term. The vaccine will be used in low to middle income settings where there will be limited or intermittent cold chain capabilities. Therefore, the vaccine will be formulated using a novel silk fibroin technology. This technology will be evaluated over 12 months on its ability to confer stability to the vaccine even when exposed to high temperatures (&gt;30 Celsius). Furthermore, the existing high yield production system allows a reduction in the cost of goods for low income settings. Within 18 months of the project start, a Zika vaccine will be fast-tracked for safety and efficacy assessment in a phase I clinical trial based in Europe. The vaccine’s effectiveness to protect will be assessed based upon the ability of the serum from the vaccine recipient to neutralize wild type Zika virus in an animal model. Finally, an in-vivo bridging study will demonstrate equivalency of the existing and the high stability formulation.","2016-09-01","2018-02-28",999180,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972215"
"110","972215",2,"A single dose ambient temperature stable vaccine for the prevention of Zika virus","The last 12 months has seen rapid spread of the Zika virus from Africa and Asia to the Americas with over 30 countries in this region now reporting Zika virus infections. The majority of these south and central American territories have high levels of poverty. While infection with this virus is rarely fatal, the virus has been associated with causing Guillain-Barr&eacute; syndrome. This disease leads to long term damage of the nervous system. Furthermore, the virus is also associated with causing congenital microcephaly of new-born babies where the mother acquired a Zika virus infection during pregnancy. Consequently, there is a demand for a vaccine suitable to combat Zika virus infection particularly in low-income settings where infection rates are highest. We propose to develop a vaccine from a pre-existing attenuated live measles vector strain that has been administered safely to hundreds of millions of people, mostly children, without relevant safety concerns. Moreover, this system has recently been used for another experimental measles-vectored vaccine that was proven as safe and resulted in an excellent clinical response. This vector is genetically engineered to express Zika virus proteins intracellularly that will allow a single dose to be effective with the vaccine providing persistant durable immunity over the long term. The vaccine will be used in low to middle income settings where there will be limited or intermittent cold chain capabilities. Therefore, the vaccine will be formulated using a novel silk fibroin technology. This technology will be evaluated over 12 months on its ability to confer stability to the vaccine even when exposed to high temperatures (&gt;30 Celsius). Furthermore, the existing high yield production system allows a reduction in the cost of goods for low income settings. Within 18 months of the project start, a Zika vaccine will be fast-tracked for safety and efficacy assessment in a phase I clinical trial based in Europe. The vaccine’s effectiveness to protect will be assessed based upon the ability of the serum from the vaccine recipient to neutralize wild type Zika virus in an animal model. Finally, an in-vivo bridging study will demonstrate equivalency of the existing and the high stability formulation.","2016-09-01","2018-02-28",999180,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972215"
"111","972216",2,"Protective efficacy and neutralisation to select an optimal Zika virus vaccine","Zika virus (ZIKV) is an emerging Flavivirus transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes that is now rapidly spreading throughout South, Central and North America. ZIKV is a major concern worldwide due to the neurologic conditions, such as Guillain-Barr&eacute; syndrome in French Polynesia, and a concurrent 20-fold increase in the incidence of microcephaly during the ZIKV outbreak in Brazil between 2014 and 2015. Unfortunately, no vaccine to prevent infection is currently available. We have recently developed two new vaccine platforms suitable for human use, based on replication-deficient chimpanzee adenoviral vectors ChAdOx and Modified Vaccinia Ankara expressing various versions of Zika structural antigens. We have started evaluating the immunogenicity of our vaccine candidates using ELISA and cellular assays, such as ELISPOT. Here, we propose to extend those studies to use functional assays such as neutralisation of viruses and infection of pre-clinical models to select the optimal vaccine candidate for a clinical trial in the near future. Our proposal aims are: (1) Compare the protective efficacy of 10 novel vaccines produced at the Jenner Institute, using pre-clinical models suitable for infection with ZIKV at the Public Health England laboratories; (2) Measure the ability of vaccine-immune sera to neutralise ZIKV entry using in vitro cell cultures to establish quantitative neutralising antibody titres required for protection in mice; and (3) Identify antibody titres in samples from infected volunteers in Mexico to define titres induced during acute infection and convalescent period of the disease, and thus define titers of physiological relevance for a vaccine candidate. We will combine laboratory data with field data obtained from areas with prevalence of ZIKV infection, supported by infrastructure of Oxford NDM-Mexico collaborative laboratories, a network dedicated to the study of emerging infectious diseases. The information obtained at the end of this study will be key to inform vaccine development and confirm the most immunogenic and protective ZIKV vaccine candidate that would be suitable for a clinical trial. This project will also strengthen new synergistic links between the PHE (https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/public-health-england), Oxford Biochemistry Department (http://www.bioch.ox.ac.uk), Oxford Vaccine Group (http://www.ovg.ox.ac.uk), Oxford NDM-Mexico network for emerging pathogens (http://www.ndm.ox.ac.uk/mexico/home) and the Jenner Institute (http://www.jenner.ac.uk/home) that will be invaluable for the UK capability to respond rapidly to emerging infections.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",498870,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972216"
"112","972216",2,"Protective efficacy and neutralisation to select an optimal Zika virus vaccine","Zika virus (ZIKV) is an emerging Flavivirus transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes that is now rapidly spreading throughout South, Central and North America. ZIKV is a major concern worldwide due to the neurologic conditions, such as Guillain-Barr&eacute; syndrome in French Polynesia, and a concurrent 20-fold increase in the incidence of microcephaly during the ZIKV outbreak in Brazil between 2014 and 2015. Unfortunately, no vaccine to prevent infection is currently available. We have recently developed two new vaccine platforms suitable for human use, based on replication-deficient chimpanzee adenoviral vectors ChAdOx and Modified Vaccinia Ankara expressing various versions of Zika structural antigens. We have started evaluating the immunogenicity of our vaccine candidates using ELISA and cellular assays, such as ELISPOT. Here, we propose to extend those studies to use functional assays such as neutralisation of viruses and infection of pre-clinical models to select the optimal vaccine candidate for a clinical trial in the near future. Our proposal aims are: (1) Compare the protective efficacy of 10 novel vaccines produced at the Jenner Institute, using pre-clinical models suitable for infection with ZIKV at the Public Health England laboratories; (2) Measure the ability of vaccine-immune sera to neutralise ZIKV entry using in vitro cell cultures to establish quantitative neutralising antibody titres required for protection in mice; and (3) Identify antibody titres in samples from infected volunteers in Mexico to define titres induced during acute infection and convalescent period of the disease, and thus define titers of physiological relevance for a vaccine candidate. We will combine laboratory data with field data obtained from areas with prevalence of ZIKV infection, supported by infrastructure of Oxford NDM-Mexico collaborative laboratories, a network dedicated to the study of emerging infectious diseases. The information obtained at the end of this study will be key to inform vaccine development and confirm the most immunogenic and protective ZIKV vaccine candidate that would be suitable for a clinical trial. This project will also strengthen new synergistic links between the PHE (https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/public-health-england), Oxford Biochemistry Department (http://www.bioch.ox.ac.uk), Oxford Vaccine Group (http://www.ovg.ox.ac.uk), Oxford NDM-Mexico network for emerging pathogens (http://www.ndm.ox.ac.uk/mexico/home) and the Jenner Institute (http://www.jenner.ac.uk/home) that will be invaluable for the UK capability to respond rapidly to emerging infections.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",498870,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972216"
"113","972217",2,"Differential diagnostics of haemorrhagic fevers in resource poor environments.","This project centres on the proof of concept of a simple, rapid diagnostic platform for the differentiation of viral haemorrhagic fevers in resource poor environments. The benefits of this approach; 1. Simplicity, requiring only a fingerprick of blood. 2. Reduced time to detection, from blood to result in around 30 mins. 3. Suited to resource poor environments, removes the requirement for lab facilities or cold-chain.Portable and as such can be used in remote areas. 4. A molecular diagnostic assay, the system can differentiate and quantify a large number of viral targets and be sensitive enough to detect down to the 1000 viruses per ml level. 5. Reduced costs per test, removing the requirement for a lab while allowing high level multiplexing make the approach compare well with multiple immunological based tests while providing viral load information. 6. Reduced hazard risk in testing to the medical professional; assay process is easy to use even with users deploying bio-hazard ptotection and the assay is closed tube. During the recent Ebola outbreak BG Research (BGR) was tasked with adapting its technology for the direct detection of sepsis causing organisms to the rapid, closed tube detection of Ebola in remote areas. The approach migrated the proven CDC assay onto a novel instrument capable of detecting down to as low as 20,000 viruses per ml of blood - the same sensitivity as the laboratory based approach. That project adapted existing BGR instrumentation into a new technology demonstrator and the goals of this project are to develop a new prototype featuring a larger reaction volume such that the sensitivity can be improved by over 20 times - enough to potentially detect infection in convalescent patients and to monitor close contacts of infected patients not yet displaying symptoms. The main goals of the project are firstly to demonstrate a novel first step that concurrently renders the virus non-infectious while releasing the viral RNA - this involves rapidly freezing and thawing the blood sample in a buffer containing an RNA stabilising biocide. The whole process takes place in a single tube and during this project a large reaction vessel, capable of analysing 5 times more blood than the Ebola technology demonstrator is the 2nd goal. A prototype instrument, capable of in-field use and able to process multiple samples concurrently in a random access manner will be designed. Lastly, assays will be developed to demonstrate the system’s capability to differentiate large numbers of different viral targets concurrently in a multiplexed assay. This is a platform technology, but the final assay chosen here will be an RT-QPCR molecular differential assay for Ebola, Lassa, Marburg, Crimean-Congo fever and Rift valley fever to be tested on live virus at PHE Porton. The platform technology can be adapted to other blood-borne diseases such as Zika, Dengue, Chikungunya and Malaria dependent on regional requirements.","2016-09-01","2017-09-30",654717,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972217"
"114","972217",2,"Differential diagnostics of haemorrhagic fevers in resource poor environments.","This project centres on the proof of concept of a simple, rapid diagnostic platform for the differentiation of viral haemorrhagic fevers in resource poor environments. The benefits of this approach; 1. Simplicity, requiring only a fingerprick of blood. 2. Reduced time to detection, from blood to result in around 30 mins. 3. Suited to resource poor environments, removes the requirement for lab facilities or cold-chain.Portable and as such can be used in remote areas. 4. A molecular diagnostic assay, the system can differentiate and quantify a large number of viral targets and be sensitive enough to detect down to the 1000 viruses per ml level. 5. Reduced costs per test, removing the requirement for a lab while allowing high level multiplexing make the approach compare well with multiple immunological based tests while providing viral load information. 6. Reduced hazard risk in testing to the medical professional; assay process is easy to use even with users deploying bio-hazard ptotection and the assay is closed tube. During the recent Ebola outbreak BG Research (BGR) was tasked with adapting its technology for the direct detection of sepsis causing organisms to the rapid, closed tube detection of Ebola in remote areas. The approach migrated the proven CDC assay onto a novel instrument capable of detecting down to as low as 20,000 viruses per ml of blood - the same sensitivity as the laboratory based approach. That project adapted existing BGR instrumentation into a new technology demonstrator and the goals of this project are to develop a new prototype featuring a larger reaction volume such that the sensitivity can be improved by over 20 times - enough to potentially detect infection in convalescent patients and to monitor close contacts of infected patients not yet displaying symptoms. The main goals of the project are firstly to demonstrate a novel first step that concurrently renders the virus non-infectious while releasing the viral RNA - this involves rapidly freezing and thawing the blood sample in a buffer containing an RNA stabilising biocide. The whole process takes place in a single tube and during this project a large reaction vessel, capable of analysing 5 times more blood than the Ebola technology demonstrator is the 2nd goal. A prototype instrument, capable of in-field use and able to process multiple samples concurrently in a random access manner will be designed. Lastly, assays will be developed to demonstrate the system’s capability to differentiate large numbers of different viral targets concurrently in a multiplexed assay. This is a platform technology, but the final assay chosen here will be an RT-QPCR molecular differential assay for Ebola, Lassa, Marburg, Crimean-Congo fever and Rift valley fever to be tested on live virus at PHE Porton. The platform technology can be adapted to other blood-borne diseases such as Zika, Dengue, Chikungunya and Malaria dependent on regional requirements.","2016-09-01","2017-09-30",654717,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972217"
"115","972218",2,"Improved Q Fever Vaccine (DSTL, PHE, ICENI DX &amp; Mologic)","Virus-like particles (VLPs) are a flexible delivery platform that provides potential for presenting multiple antigens to the immune system concurrently. Hepatitis B core antigen self assembles to form highly stable, immunogenic VLPs in a relatively low cost yeast expression system. The viral protein can be adapted to display foreign antigens on spikes that protrude from the surface of the VLPs. This technology circumvents the need for high cost, high containment production facilities, cold transportation and storage. Our goal is to produce a cost effective, second generation Q fever vaccine, using VLP technology as a production platform. In initial proof of concept studies, the Mologic-Dstl-Iceni Diagnostics consortium has successfully produced and tested Burkholderia pseudomallei vaccine candidates based on yeast-produced VLPs presenting either peptide or polysaccharide antigens. These candidates were efficacious in a mouse model of Melioidosis, demonstrating the readiness of this technology for roll out for antibacterial vaccine production. In the current proposal, we will consolidate and extend our work on this platform, applying it to Coxiella burnetii, the causative agent of Q Fever, which is listed as an agent of concern by the WHO and UN. Q fever is found worldwide and there is high prevalence in low income countries. This VLP platform bid will draw on expertise in Coxiella burnetii antigenicity to develop a vaccine against Q fever. It has been shown that C. burnetii lipopolysaccharide (LPS) provides protection against challenge, indicating that it is a key protective antigen. LPS itself is a T-cell independent antigen; conjugation to a protein carrier can improve antibody isotype development and crucially stimulate B cell memory. Therefore, to increase vaccine efficacy and develop immune memory to Coxiella, we propose conjugating native C. burnetii LPS, or synthetic fragments thereof, to VLP carriers. In parallel, we will express previously identified C. burnetii protein surface antigens on VLPs, providing material for potential blending with LPS-VLP conjugates to produce multi-antigen vaccines. The novel VLP vaccines produced in this study will be tested in our established mouse model of C. burnetii aerosol infection; immune responses will be determined and related to the vaccine efficacy. Several VLP vaccines have already been licensed for human use, demonstrating an established path to market. The opportunity to manufacture without high level containment will result in inexpensive vaccines where manufacture can be transferred to low income settings. This will serve to pave the way for future development of low-cost vaccines for other globally significant pathogens.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",522800,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972218"
"116","972218",2,"Improved Q Fever Vaccine (DSTL, PHE, ICENI DX &amp; Mologic)","Virus-like particles (VLPs) are a flexible delivery platform that provides potential for presenting multiple antigens to the immune system concurrently. Hepatitis B core antigen self assembles to form highly stable, immunogenic VLPs in a relatively low cost yeast expression system. The viral protein can be adapted to display foreign antigens on spikes that protrude from the surface of the VLPs. This technology circumvents the need for high cost, high containment production facilities, cold transportation and storage. Our goal is to produce a cost effective, second generation Q fever vaccine, using VLP technology as a production platform. In initial proof of concept studies, the Mologic-Dstl-Iceni Diagnostics consortium has successfully produced and tested Burkholderia pseudomallei vaccine candidates based on yeast-produced VLPs presenting either peptide or polysaccharide antigens. These candidates were efficacious in a mouse model of Melioidosis, demonstrating the readiness of this technology for roll out for antibacterial vaccine production. In the current proposal, we will consolidate and extend our work on this platform, applying it to Coxiella burnetii, the causative agent of Q Fever, which is listed as an agent of concern by the WHO and UN. Q fever is found worldwide and there is high prevalence in low income countries. This VLP platform bid will draw on expertise in Coxiella burnetii antigenicity to develop a vaccine against Q fever. It has been shown that C. burnetii lipopolysaccharide (LPS) provides protection against challenge, indicating that it is a key protective antigen. LPS itself is a T-cell independent antigen; conjugation to a protein carrier can improve antibody isotype development and crucially stimulate B cell memory. Therefore, to increase vaccine efficacy and develop immune memory to Coxiella, we propose conjugating native C. burnetii LPS, or synthetic fragments thereof, to VLP carriers. In parallel, we will express previously identified C. burnetii protein surface antigens on VLPs, providing material for potential blending with LPS-VLP conjugates to produce multi-antigen vaccines. The novel VLP vaccines produced in this study will be tested in our established mouse model of C. burnetii aerosol infection; immune responses will be determined and related to the vaccine efficacy. Several VLP vaccines have already been licensed for human use, demonstrating an established path to market. The opportunity to manufacture without high level containment will result in inexpensive vaccines where manufacture can be transferred to low income settings. This will serve to pave the way for future development of low-cost vaccines for other globally significant pathogens.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",522800,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972218"
"117","972219",2,"An Oral Zika Vaccine","Oral delivery of low cost viral Zika vaccine antigens which generate authentic humoral responses. The ability to deliver a vaccine orally in a reliable manner has several obvious advantages. However, barriers exist which limit this route of administration. Two of the main barriers include the highly acidic environment in the stomach and the hold time of products entering the stomach (up to 5 hours) during which time the temperature is a constant 37&deg;C. Technology to apply enteric coatings to substances to ameliorate the acidic challenge have been available for a considerable time, however the ability to overcome the thermal barrier has been not been available until now and represents a significant technical formulation challenge limiting the broader use of the orally administered viral vectored vaccines. Stabilitech has a novel stabilisation platform which protects fragile vaccines and biologics not only during processing and storage, but also as recently demonstrated when administered to subjects orally. We propose to build upon our pilot data in which we have used adenovirus 5 delivery to the duodenum for expression of green fluorescent protein which in addition demostrated an antibody response to the GFP but no neutralising responses to adenovirus. The proposed series of investigations will undertake experimental studies to develop a novel Zika virus vaccine which would be administerable via oral tablets. This vaccine would have multiple additional benefits due to its inherent thermal stability which would impact on the whole supply chain and relieving the pressure on product supplies, healthcare providers and importantly would be very amenable to developing countries due in part to the cost savings generated from the ease of administration, production, transport and storage.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",214270,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972219"
"118","972219",2,"An Oral Zika Vaccine","Oral delivery of low cost viral Zika vaccine antigens which generate authentic humoral responses. The ability to deliver a vaccine orally in a reliable manner has several obvious advantages. However, barriers exist which limit this route of administration. Two of the main barriers include the highly acidic environment in the stomach and the hold time of products entering the stomach (up to 5 hours) during which time the temperature is a constant 37&deg;C. Technology to apply enteric coatings to substances to ameliorate the acidic challenge have been available for a considerable time, however the ability to overcome the thermal barrier has been not been available until now and represents a significant technical formulation challenge limiting the broader use of the orally administered viral vectored vaccines. Stabilitech has a novel stabilisation platform which protects fragile vaccines and biologics not only during processing and storage, but also as recently demonstrated when administered to subjects orally. We propose to build upon our pilot data in which we have used adenovirus 5 delivery to the duodenum for expression of green fluorescent protein which in addition demostrated an antibody response to the GFP but no neutralising responses to adenovirus. The proposed series of investigations will undertake experimental studies to develop a novel Zika virus vaccine which would be administerable via oral tablets. This vaccine would have multiple additional benefits due to its inherent thermal stability which would impact on the whole supply chain and relieving the pressure on product supplies, healthcare providers and importantly would be very amenable to developing countries due in part to the cost savings generated from the ease of administration, production, transport and storage.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",214270,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972219"
"119","972220",2,"A Conditional System for Inexpensive Manufacture of Attenuated Vaccines","Emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) with a potential for substantial and wide spread human mortality are an increasing threat to global stability. EIDs of global significance are most commonly caused by viruses - many of which have never been seen prior to their emergence into the human population. The level of societal disruption associated with the recent Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa gives only an indication of the potential impact of these viruses: only a slight increase in the capacity of an emerging virus with a similar mortality rate to spread will be far more devastating. Vaccination is a cost-effective method of EID control. However, most of these viruses emerge in poorer, low income countries where cost of vaccine production is prohibitive to widespread vaccination without foreign intervention. High-income country vaccine sourcing is a serious impediment to widespread adoption of vaccination by the local population, and also undermines the empowerment of middle/low income countries to permanently resolve their own societal and healthcare problems. The aim of the current proposal is to develop a vaccine platform that is suitable for development to target emerging viruses in low income countries. This vaccine platform will be inexpensive, easy and quick to manufacture, provide long-lasting and effective protective immunity after only a single or few doses, have a high safety profile, and be suitable for broad application against multiple different viruses.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",156181,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972220"
"120","972220",2,"A Conditional System for Inexpensive Manufacture of Attenuated Vaccines","Emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) with a potential for substantial and wide spread human mortality are an increasing threat to global stability. EIDs of global significance are most commonly caused by viruses - many of which have never been seen prior to their emergence into the human population. The level of societal disruption associated with the recent Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa gives only an indication of the potential impact of these viruses: only a slight increase in the capacity of an emerging virus with a similar mortality rate to spread will be far more devastating. Vaccination is a cost-effective method of EID control. However, most of these viruses emerge in poorer, low income countries where cost of vaccine production is prohibitive to widespread vaccination without foreign intervention. High-income country vaccine sourcing is a serious impediment to widespread adoption of vaccination by the local population, and also undermines the empowerment of middle/low income countries to permanently resolve their own societal and healthcare problems. The aim of the current proposal is to develop a vaccine platform that is suitable for development to target emerging viruses in low income countries. This vaccine platform will be inexpensive, easy and quick to manufacture, provide long-lasting and effective protective immunity after only a single or few doses, have a high safety profile, and be suitable for broad application against multiple different viruses.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",156181,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972220"
"121","972221",2,"Polyhedrin-encased glycoproteins as novel cold chain independent vaccines","The majority of vaccines have a narrow temperature window within which they must be stored to maintain functionality. The development of vaccines that are stable at ambient temperatures is a major challenge in their delivery to the people that need them the most, in low-income settings where the refrigeration infrastructure required is poor. We have developed an innovative vaccine manufacturing system, based on a patented protein production mechanism. This system exploits the unique properties of the polyhedrin protein naturally expressed by the silkworm (Bombyx mori) cypovirus. The polyhedrin protein forms large, temperature-stable and pH-stable crystals within infected insect cells. These crystals attach to, and subsequently encase, mature cypovirus virions. This results in enhanced stability and viability of the virion, leading to a markedly longer window of infectivity. Genetic engineering techniques have been used to adapt this viral survival mechanism to encapsulate any given tagged recombinant proteins by co-expression with polyhedrin protein. This in-vitro insect cell expression system is known as PODS (POlyhedra Delivery System). PODS provides key advantages for vaccine production, including (1) rapid development, to address emerging viruses, (2) scalability of manufacture, and (3) inherent stability of cargo protein structure, even over extended periods in warm and wet conditions, eliminating the need for cold-chain supply and the need for frequently repeated, more costly manufacturing schedules. The aim of this study is to develop a vaccine delivery platform based on PODS. The project will have 3 streams: 1) Develop PODS encoding and encapsulating glycoproteins from a range of priority pathogens with pandemic potential and confirm temperature stability of PODS vaccines over an extended time. 2) Test PODS for their ability to induce neutralising antibodies. 3) As a proof of concept, test PODS vaccines for their ability to protect against infection. We will examine three viral infections based on prioritization by UKVRDN and based on our expertise: (1) Zika virus, an emerging pathogen linked to malformation of the brain in children of mothers infected during pregnancy. (2) Ebola virus, a viral hemorrhagic fever that has caused the death of &gt;11,000 individuals in West Africa since December 2013. (3) Lassa fever, an acute viral haemorrhagic illness that is endemic in the rodent population in parts of West Africa which causes illness in 300,000 individuals each year with around 5,000 deaths as a result. By the end of these initial studies, we aim to obtain proof of concept that the PODS platform can be used to generate temperature stable vaccines capable of inducing a potent neutralising antibody response. Having shown the efficacy of the vaccine we plan to move to GMP production of PODS in a phase II application.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",486701,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972221"
"122","972221",2,"Polyhedrin-encased glycoproteins as novel cold chain independent vaccines","The majority of vaccines have a narrow temperature window within which they must be stored to maintain functionality. The development of vaccines that are stable at ambient temperatures is a major challenge in their delivery to the people that need them the most, in low-income settings where the refrigeration infrastructure required is poor. We have developed an innovative vaccine manufacturing system, based on a patented protein production mechanism. This system exploits the unique properties of the polyhedrin protein naturally expressed by the silkworm (Bombyx mori) cypovirus. The polyhedrin protein forms large, temperature-stable and pH-stable crystals within infected insect cells. These crystals attach to, and subsequently encase, mature cypovirus virions. This results in enhanced stability and viability of the virion, leading to a markedly longer window of infectivity. Genetic engineering techniques have been used to adapt this viral survival mechanism to encapsulate any given tagged recombinant proteins by co-expression with polyhedrin protein. This in-vitro insect cell expression system is known as PODS (POlyhedra Delivery System). PODS provides key advantages for vaccine production, including (1) rapid development, to address emerging viruses, (2) scalability of manufacture, and (3) inherent stability of cargo protein structure, even over extended periods in warm and wet conditions, eliminating the need for cold-chain supply and the need for frequently repeated, more costly manufacturing schedules. The aim of this study is to develop a vaccine delivery platform based on PODS. The project will have 3 streams: 1) Develop PODS encoding and encapsulating glycoproteins from a range of priority pathogens with pandemic potential and confirm temperature stability of PODS vaccines over an extended time. 2) Test PODS for their ability to induce neutralising antibodies. 3) As a proof of concept, test PODS vaccines for their ability to protect against infection. We will examine three viral infections based on prioritization by UKVRDN and based on our expertise: (1) Zika virus, an emerging pathogen linked to malformation of the brain in children of mothers infected during pregnancy. (2) Ebola virus, a viral hemorrhagic fever that has caused the death of &gt;11,000 individuals in West Africa since December 2013. (3) Lassa fever, an acute viral haemorrhagic illness that is endemic in the rodent population in parts of West Africa which causes illness in 300,000 individuals each year with around 5,000 deaths as a result. By the end of these initial studies, we aim to obtain proof of concept that the PODS platform can be used to generate temperature stable vaccines capable of inducing a potent neutralising antibody response. Having shown the efficacy of the vaccine we plan to move to GMP production of PODS in a phase II application.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",486701,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972221"
"123","972222",2,"An affordable, oral vaccine against mosquito- and sexually-transmitted Zika virus","In February 2016 the WHO declared the Zika virus (ZIKV) to be a “Public Health Emergency of International Concern”. Experts now believe ZIKV is linked to a broad set of complications in pregnancy, including miscarriage, stillbirth, premature birth and eye problems with 29% of scans showing abnormalities in babies in the womb, including growth restrictions and microcephaly, in women infected with ZIKV. To clear viruses, the body generally requires both systemic and cellular immune responses, but unlike most insect-vectored diseases, ZIKV can also persist in semen and has been shown to spread as a sexually transmitted disease. That means mucosal transmission by travellers returning from any of the 43 endemic countries (population 525 million; 66 million tourists p.a.) may bring back and spread the disease in non-endemic countries. ZIKV has also been found in other bodily fluids including saliva and urine. Therefore, a vaccine that triggers systemic, cellular and mucosal immunity is needed, and preferably one that is easily manufactured and distributed under many different conditions. Prokarium’s oral vaccine platform, Vaxonella, mimics an intracellular pathogen and expresses vaccine antigens from within the immune cells of the gut lining. This means Vaxonella triggers all arms of immunity while reducing manufacturing costs by up to 70% due to the elimination of downstream purification of protein, which is always needed for injectable protein vaccines. In addition, Prokarium has developed a dried formulation of Vaxonella that is thermostable at 40 C for up to 12 weeks. These qualities are specifically suited to ZIKV and distribution to endemic areas as well as travellers, as Vaxonella vaccines can be produced almost anywhere and be self-administered. This temperature stability and self-administration will be useful in remote areas lacking medical personnel, but also for travellers if a booster is needed, as most travellers do not prepare ahead of time to take several doses of vaccine. Vaxonella is based on live strains of Salmonella bacteria that are weakened so that they cannot cause disease. The Salmonella are taken orally as a capsule (or as a liquid suspension for children); they transit the stomach into the small intestine where they actively enter through the gut lining into the antigen-presenting cells of the immune system (mimicking an intracellular pathogen). Using Prokarium’s proprietary genetic technologies, the Salmonella to be used in this project will be programmed to express protein antigens from ZIKV, and tested in mice to study the level of immune response generated. The best candidates will then be used to immunise mice which will be challenged with the actual ZIKV, using the existing subcutaneous challenge model at Public Health England (to mimick the mosquito bite route), who will also develop a novel vaginal challenge model (mimicking the sexually transmitted route), to see if they are protected compared to unvaccinated control mice. This will provide information to support further development of the ZIKV vaccine for future evaluation in human volunteers and represents the first known attempt to make a ZIKV vaccine that has a high chance of preventing both the insect-vectored and sexually transmitted versions of the disease.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",274823,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972222"
"124","972222",2,"An affordable, oral vaccine against mosquito- and sexually-transmitted Zika virus","In February 2016 the WHO declared the Zika virus (ZIKV) to be a “Public Health Emergency of International Concern”. Experts now believe ZIKV is linked to a broad set of complications in pregnancy, including miscarriage, stillbirth, premature birth and eye problems with 29% of scans showing abnormalities in babies in the womb, including growth restrictions and microcephaly, in women infected with ZIKV. To clear viruses, the body generally requires both systemic and cellular immune responses, but unlike most insect-vectored diseases, ZIKV can also persist in semen and has been shown to spread as a sexually transmitted disease. That means mucosal transmission by travellers returning from any of the 43 endemic countries (population 525 million; 66 million tourists p.a.) may bring back and spread the disease in non-endemic countries. ZIKV has also been found in other bodily fluids including saliva and urine. Therefore, a vaccine that triggers systemic, cellular and mucosal immunity is needed, and preferably one that is easily manufactured and distributed under many different conditions. Prokarium’s oral vaccine platform, Vaxonella, mimics an intracellular pathogen and expresses vaccine antigens from within the immune cells of the gut lining. This means Vaxonella triggers all arms of immunity while reducing manufacturing costs by up to 70% due to the elimination of downstream purification of protein, which is always needed for injectable protein vaccines. In addition, Prokarium has developed a dried formulation of Vaxonella that is thermostable at 40 C for up to 12 weeks. These qualities are specifically suited to ZIKV and distribution to endemic areas as well as travellers, as Vaxonella vaccines can be produced almost anywhere and be self-administered. This temperature stability and self-administration will be useful in remote areas lacking medical personnel, but also for travellers if a booster is needed, as most travellers do not prepare ahead of time to take several doses of vaccine. Vaxonella is based on live strains of Salmonella bacteria that are weakened so that they cannot cause disease. The Salmonella are taken orally as a capsule (or as a liquid suspension for children); they transit the stomach into the small intestine where they actively enter through the gut lining into the antigen-presenting cells of the immune system (mimicking an intracellular pathogen). Using Prokarium’s proprietary genetic technologies, the Salmonella to be used in this project will be programmed to express protein antigens from ZIKV, and tested in mice to study the level of immune response generated. The best candidates will then be used to immunise mice which will be challenged with the actual ZIKV, using the existing subcutaneous challenge model at Public Health England (to mimick the mosquito bite route), who will also develop a novel vaginal challenge model (mimicking the sexually transmitted route), to see if they are protected compared to unvaccinated control mice. This will provide information to support further development of the ZIKV vaccine for future evaluation in human volunteers and represents the first known attempt to make a ZIKV vaccine that has a high chance of preventing both the insect-vectored and sexually transmitted versions of the disease.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",394407,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972222"
"125","972223",2,"LassaVacc","This project will generate and test a vaccine for Lassa Fever (LF), for which there is currently none available. LF is a haemorrhagic fever common in West Africa, caused by Lassa virus (LASV). In addition to causing approximately half a million cases with over 5000 deaths a year, LF is regularly imported into Europe, often into the UK. The proposed vaccine will be a live virus based on the widely used orthopox Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA), which does not grow in humans. MVA will be genetically modified to express the capsid and surface glycoproteins from LASV. This will result in the induction of an appropriate and protective immune response. In this work the immune response will be examined in ‘humanised’ mice which possess a human immune system. LASV is naturally reservoired in rodents and normal laboratory mice remain resistant to LF. In consequence, past research has been limited to the use of guinea pigs which complicate mechanistic studies on immunity. Following the assesment of the induced immune response in humanised mice we will conduct a vaccintion - challenge study with wild type LASV. Research Objectives 1) Create an MVA Lassa virus capsid - glycoprotein construct (MVA-LassaVacc). 2) Develop a challenge model in humanised mice to test the efficacy of Lassa virus vaccines. 3) Determine the immune response of the MVA-Lassa construct in humanised mice. 4) Test the MVA-Lassa construct for protection in the humanised mice challenge model. PHE-Porton is a WHO Collaborating Centre for the most dangerous virus pathogens such as LASV. As such it has access to a wide range of laboratory strains and active links to colleagues in the field who can provide circulating strains. MVA with full freedom to operate is also available at PHE-Porton. Indeed PHE-Porton has a successful background of work on vaccine candidates based on MVA for other pathogens such as Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic fever virus. Significantly PHE-Porton has a track record in producing attenuated orthopoxvirus vaccine candidates – including vaccinia Lister which has been manipulated in the past to construct an efficacious Lassa vaccine candidate. The vaccinia Lister approach is limited however, because it cannot be used with immunocompromised idividuals such as those in many parts of Africa who have HIV. Nevertheless, we can now build on this experience by adopting the highly attenuated MVA platform which has a proven safety history, including in immunocompromised patients, since its use in over 100,000 doses in humans during the smallpox eradication campaign of the 1970s. It is also amenable to large scale GMP manufacture, does not require a cold chain and is thus suited to use in low resource settings.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",559990,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972223"
"126","972223",2,"LassaVacc","This project will generate and test a vaccine for Lassa Fever (LF), for which there is currently none available. LF is a haemorrhagic fever common in West Africa, caused by Lassa virus (LASV). In addition to causing approximately half a million cases with over 5000 deaths a year, LF is regularly imported into Europe, often into the UK. The proposed vaccine will be a live virus based on the widely used orthopox Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA), which does not grow in humans. MVA will be genetically modified to express the capsid and surface glycoproteins from LASV. This will result in the induction of an appropriate and protective immune response. In this work the immune response will be examined in ‘humanised’ mice which possess a human immune system. LASV is naturally reservoired in rodents and normal laboratory mice remain resistant to LF. In consequence, past research has been limited to the use of guinea pigs which complicate mechanistic studies on immunity. Following the assesment of the induced immune response in humanised mice we will conduct a vaccintion - challenge study with wild type LASV. Research Objectives 1) Create an MVA Lassa virus capsid - glycoprotein construct (MVA-LassaVacc). 2) Develop a challenge model in humanised mice to test the efficacy of Lassa virus vaccines. 3) Determine the immune response of the MVA-Lassa construct in humanised mice. 4) Test the MVA-Lassa construct for protection in the humanised mice challenge model. PHE-Porton is a WHO Collaborating Centre for the most dangerous virus pathogens such as LASV. As such it has access to a wide range of laboratory strains and active links to colleagues in the field who can provide circulating strains. MVA with full freedom to operate is also available at PHE-Porton. Indeed PHE-Porton has a successful background of work on vaccine candidates based on MVA for other pathogens such as Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic fever virus. Significantly PHE-Porton has a track record in producing attenuated orthopoxvirus vaccine candidates – including vaccinia Lister which has been manipulated in the past to construct an efficacious Lassa vaccine candidate. The vaccinia Lister approach is limited however, because it cannot be used with immunocompromised idividuals such as those in many parts of Africa who have HIV. Nevertheless, we can now build on this experience by adopting the highly attenuated MVA platform which has a proven safety history, including in immunocompromised patients, since its use in over 100,000 doses in humans during the smallpox eradication campaign of the 1970s. It is also amenable to large scale GMP manufacture, does not require a cold chain and is thus suited to use in low resource settings.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",593928,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972223"
"127","972224",2,"A Dengue/Zika Vaccine That Avoids Antibody-Dependent Enhancement","The present project provides a solution to the principal problem of dengue vaccine development, wherein the use of licensed (and soon to be licensed) vaccines based on existing vaccine strategies runs the risk (in a finite number of cases) of giving rise to 'antibody dependent ehnancement' of dengue infection, making it worse rather than preventing it. Enhancement is a feature of natural infection (where antibodies sent to neutralize the virus are subverted to gain access to human bodily cells), usually upon encounter with a second 'serotype' of virus, resulting in more severe symptoms. Vaccination, while for the most part conferring protection, is liable also to give rise to cases of the severe 'dengue haemmhoragic fever' (DHF), upon first exposure to a wild dengue virus: i.e. 'iatrogenic' cases of DHF, which would not have occurred but for the vaccine. Furthermore, existing vaccine approaches also have the potential to create a population of vaccinated individuals who develop iatrogenic-DHF, at some interval after the vaccine (or vaccine course) has been administered (eg. several years). This is because, as immunity to dengue wanes, protective antibodies reach a concentration where they 'enhance' rather than prevent infection. Also, the rate of decay of 'immunological memory' (where the immune system recalls encounter with a wild virus or vaccine shot) is not synchronous for the four serotypes of the vaccine, such that immunity to each serotype of dengue is lost at different times, successively increasing the risk of severe disease. This gradual failure of immune memory likewise creates a new population of individuals who are now predisposed to DHF (when bitten by an infected mosquito), instead of protected, as a result of previous vaccination. The solution is to make a vaccine that has zero or minimal propensity to give rise to 'antibody dependent enhancement', while preserving efficacy, in a manner amenable to incorporation into several of the various vaccine formats now in existence (live vector, DNA vaccine, oral vaccine, subunit vaccine etc.). For the purposes of this project zika is accorded the status (metaphorically speaking) of a 'fifth dengue serotype'. This is because dengue infection (and current dengue vaccines) have the potential to facilitate the spread of zika by generating infection-enhancing antibodies which also react with zika virus. The object of this project is to generate a safer dengue vaccine with zika built in - in order to avoid the risk of vaccine-mediated facilitation of pandemic spread of zika infection by dengue vaccination. Given the immense societal need and interest on the part of governments and pharma/vaccine companies in vaccinating against dengue and related virus infections, the intellectual property going into this project and generated by it, will become a valuable commodity for new vaccine developers seeking competitive advantage in the marketplace based on safety. 'Safety' will become a criterion of increasing value given the complexities of new epidemics of related viruses (such as the present zika pandemic) and how they interact with national vaccination programmes. The role of natural dengue infection in paving the way for pandemic zika infection has been elaborated recently by Philip K Russell of the Sabin Vaccine Institute (PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2016 Mar 18;10(3)). Current vaccines may meanwhile be of substantial 'net' benefit to public health, but the safer option promised by the present proposal has the potential to win out.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",5e+05,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972224"
"128","972224",2,"A Dengue/Zika Vaccine That Avoids Antibody-Dependent Enhancement","The present project provides a solution to the principal problem of dengue vaccine development, wherein the use of licensed (and soon to be licensed) vaccines based on existing vaccine strategies runs the risk (in a finite number of cases) of giving rise to 'antibody dependent ehnancement' of dengue infection, making it worse rather than preventing it. Enhancement is a feature of natural infection (where antibodies sent to neutralize the virus are subverted to gain access to human bodily cells), usually upon encounter with a second 'serotype' of virus, resulting in more severe symptoms. Vaccination, while for the most part conferring protection, is liable also to give rise to cases of the severe 'dengue haemmhoragic fever' (DHF), upon first exposure to a wild dengue virus: i.e. 'iatrogenic' cases of DHF, which would not have occurred but for the vaccine. Furthermore, existing vaccine approaches also have the potential to create a population of vaccinated individuals who develop iatrogenic-DHF, at some interval after the vaccine (or vaccine course) has been administered (eg. several years). This is because, as immunity to dengue wanes, protective antibodies reach a concentration where they 'enhance' rather than prevent infection. Also, the rate of decay of 'immunological memory' (where the immune system recalls encounter with a wild virus or vaccine shot) is not synchronous for the four serotypes of the vaccine, such that immunity to each serotype of dengue is lost at different times, successively increasing the risk of severe disease. This gradual failure of immune memory likewise creates a new population of individuals who are now predisposed to DHF (when bitten by an infected mosquito), instead of protected, as a result of previous vaccination. The solution is to make a vaccine that has zero or minimal propensity to give rise to 'antibody dependent enhancement', while preserving efficacy, in a manner amenable to incorporation into several of the various vaccine formats now in existence (live vector, DNA vaccine, oral vaccine, subunit vaccine etc.). For the purposes of this project zika is accorded the status (metaphorically speaking) of a 'fifth dengue serotype'. This is because dengue infection (and current dengue vaccines) have the potential to facilitate the spread of zika by generating infection-enhancing antibodies which also react with zika virus. The object of this project is to generate a safer dengue vaccine with zika built in - in order to avoid the risk of vaccine-mediated facilitation of pandemic spread of zika infection by dengue vaccination. Given the immense societal need and interest on the part of governments and pharma/vaccine companies in vaccinating against dengue and related virus infections, the intellectual property going into this project and generated by it, will become a valuable commodity for new vaccine developers seeking competitive advantage in the marketplace based on safety. 'Safety' will become a criterion of increasing value given the complexities of new epidemics of related viruses (such as the present zika pandemic) and how they interact with national vaccination programmes. The role of natural dengue infection in paving the way for pandemic zika infection has been elaborated recently by Philip K Russell of the Sabin Vaccine Institute (PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2016 Mar 18;10(3)). Current vaccines may meanwhile be of substantial 'net' benefit to public health, but the safer option promised by the present proposal has the potential to win out.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",5e+05,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972224"
"129","972225",2,"Room temperature stable MVA-GP pox vectored vaccine against CCHF","The objective of the proposed programme is to achieve a room-temperature stable, ready-to-inject vaccine against Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF). HydRIS (Hypodermic Re-hydration Injection System) stabilisation platform with a proven track record of successfully stabilising live viral and bacterial vectors will be assessed to stabilise MVA-GP vaccine- a novel pox-vector based vaccine against CCHF developed by the Health Protection Agency. The successful completion of the programme will enable to develop a CCHF vaccine that will not rely on the cold-chain-distribution, which is especially challenging in certain parts of the world vulnerable to CCHF. As a platform technology, this programme will further demonstrate the applicability to a range of MVA-vectored vaccines. Nova Biopharma Technologies part of Nova Group continue to develop cutting edge technologies supported by it's advanced manufacturing capabilities for both clinical and commercial manufacturing scales. PHE exists to protect and improve the nation’s health and wellbeing, and reduce health inequalities. It does this through world-class science, knowledge and intelligence, advocacy, partnerships and the delivery of specialist public health services. PHE is an operationally autonomous executive agency of the Department of Health. PHE Porton undertakes basic and applied research into understanding infectious diseases, with expertise in high containment pathogens. PHE Porton specialise in translational research to develop and test interventions for public health, including new products such as vaccines and diagnostics.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",428646,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972225"
"130","972225",2,"Room temperature stable MVA-GP pox vectored vaccine against CCHF","The objective of the proposed programme is to achieve a room-temperature stable, ready-to-inject vaccine against Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF). HydRIS (Hypodermic Re-hydration Injection System) stabilisation platform with a proven track record of successfully stabilising live viral and bacterial vectors will be assessed to stabilise MVA-GP vaccine- a novel pox-vector based vaccine against CCHF developed by the Health Protection Agency. The successful completion of the programme will enable to develop a CCHF vaccine that will not rely on the cold-chain-distribution, which is especially challenging in certain parts of the world vulnerable to CCHF. As a platform technology, this programme will further demonstrate the applicability to a range of MVA-vectored vaccines. Nova Biopharma Technologies part of Nova Group continue to develop cutting edge technologies supported by it's advanced manufacturing capabilities for both clinical and commercial manufacturing scales. PHE exists to protect and improve the nation’s health and wellbeing, and reduce health inequalities. It does this through world-class science, knowledge and intelligence, advocacy, partnerships and the delivery of specialist public health services. PHE is an operationally autonomous executive agency of the Department of Health. PHE Porton undertakes basic and applied research into understanding infectious diseases, with expertise in high containment pathogens. PHE Porton specialise in translational research to develop and test interventions for public health, including new products such as vaccines and diagnostics.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",428646,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972225"
"131","972226",2,"Emerging Viral Vaccine Antigen Insert Consortium (EVAC)","Of the emerging and re-emerging diseases a disproportionate number (37%) are caused by RNA viruses (Heeney, J Internal Med, 2006), notoriously variable due to their intrinsically high mutation rate. Vaccines are only as good as the immune targets (antigens or gene inserts) of the pathogen that they encode. In most cases current vaccine candidates against RNA viruses are limited by the viral strain used as the vaccine insert, which is often chosen based on availability of a wild-type strain rather than by informed design. By bringing together cutting edge technologies we can achieve dramatic improvements in vaccine efficacy against new viral variants based on outbreak sequence data to generate synthetic optimised vaccine inserts to give the broadest possible vaccine protection against future outbreaks of variable RNA viruses. We will generate new vaccine candidate inserts for a wide variety of emerging and re-emerging viral agents including Ebola, Marburg, Lassa, Zika, MERS, Chikungunya, Dengue and others. Our new platform vaccine technology merges (1) sequences of outbreak pathogens, (2) broadly anti-viral neutralising monoclonal antibodies (BNmAb) derived from outbreak survivors, (3) computational modelling methodologies, (4) synthetic gene technology and antigen display technology, (5) high throughput viral binding and neutralisation screens, and (6) in vivo immune selection and vaccine efficacy readouts. The end products are novel immunogens to trigger the broadest spectrum of protective immune responses using Digitally Designed, Immune Optimised and Selected (DIOS) vaccine inserts against emerging/re-emerging RNA viruses. Towards this goal we propose two streams: Stream I) Proof of concept (this application). Within 12 months, we will demonstrate proof of concept by targeting the broader family of Ebola viruses by delivering next generation vaccine inserts designed to be slotted into existing clinically trialled vaccine vectors to compare improvements in immune responses, the breadth of protection, durability and efficacy. We will deliver new DIOS vaccine inserts into existing candidate Ebola vaccine vectors to enable direct comparison in head to head clinical trials. Stream II) During stream 1 we will have established proof of concept and prepared our technology pipeline to address other outbreak RNA viral disease vaccines needs such as Lassa Fever virus and Zika virus. The collaborating team has the technology operational (under previous Gates Foundation/HIV funding) and we have a proven track record of working together and delivering (Ewer et al, NEJM, 2016). This new platform will improve the UK’s vaccine arsenal to emerging viral diseases, and ensure that the UK is at the forefront of the global fight against future disease outbreaks.","2016-09-01","2017-10-31",498379,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972226"
"132","972226",2,"Emerging Viral Vaccine Antigen Insert Consortium (EVAC)","Of the emerging and re-emerging diseases a disproportionate number (37%) are caused by RNA viruses (Heeney, J Internal Med, 2006), notoriously variable due to their intrinsically high mutation rate. Vaccines are only as good as the immune targets (antigens or gene inserts) of the pathogen that they encode. In most cases current vaccine candidates against RNA viruses are limited by the viral strain used as the vaccine insert, which is often chosen based on availability of a wild-type strain rather than by informed design. By bringing together cutting edge technologies we can achieve dramatic improvements in vaccine efficacy against new viral variants based on outbreak sequence data to generate synthetic optimised vaccine inserts to give the broadest possible vaccine protection against future outbreaks of variable RNA viruses. We will generate new vaccine candidate inserts for a wide variety of emerging and re-emerging viral agents including Ebola, Marburg, Lassa, Zika, MERS, Chikungunya, Dengue and others. Our new platform vaccine technology merges (1) sequences of outbreak pathogens, (2) broadly anti-viral neutralising monoclonal antibodies (BNmAb) derived from outbreak survivors, (3) computational modelling methodologies, (4) synthetic gene technology and antigen display technology, (5) high throughput viral binding and neutralisation screens, and (6) in vivo immune selection and vaccine efficacy readouts. The end products are novel immunogens to trigger the broadest spectrum of protective immune responses using Digitally Designed, Immune Optimised and Selected (DIOS) vaccine inserts against emerging/re-emerging RNA viruses. Towards this goal we propose two streams: Stream I) Proof of concept (this application). Within 12 months, we will demonstrate proof of concept by targeting the broader family of Ebola viruses by delivering next generation vaccine inserts designed to be slotted into existing clinically trialled vaccine vectors to compare improvements in immune responses, the breadth of protection, durability and efficacy. We will deliver new DIOS vaccine inserts into existing candidate Ebola vaccine vectors to enable direct comparison in head to head clinical trials. Stream II) During stream 1 we will have established proof of concept and prepared our technology pipeline to address other outbreak RNA viral disease vaccines needs such as Lassa Fever virus and Zika virus. The collaborating team has the technology operational (under previous Gates Foundation/HIV funding) and we have a proven track record of working together and delivering (Ewer et al, NEJM, 2016). This new platform will improve the UK’s vaccine arsenal to emerging viral diseases, and ensure that the UK is at the forefront of the global fight against future disease outbreaks.","2016-09-01","2017-10-31",498379,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972226"
"133","972227",2,"Development of an economically viable CCHF virus vaccine for local production","Some of the deadliest diseases we know about occur in areas of the world least well equipped to deal with them. The fact that they rarely cause problems in developed countries has hampered the production of preventative vaccines. Interest in these so called neglected diseases is limited owing to the small markets involved and poorly resourced healthcare. An example is Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF) virus, a severe disease that outbreaks sporadically in Africa, the Balkans, the Middle East and Asia. The virus is spread to humans via tick bites or contact with virus-infected animals, which rarely suffer disease, or other virus-infected humans. Flu-like symptoms develop within a week, with progression in 75% of cases to signs of haemorrhage including nosebleeds, vomiting and black stools. The liver becomes swollen and painful. Kidney function can also be affected with failure in the most severe cases. The mortality rate for the disease is 10-40%. One of the problems in developing such a vaccine is that as CCHF is so hazardous, any studies to produce a vaccine based on the intact virus must be conducted in specialized, high containment facilities. Although vaccines may be derived from inactivated, non-infectious CCHF virus, these have been shown to be toxic. An alternative approach is proposed in this project. We will use information about the genetics of CCHF virus to design a synthetic gene that has the code for making a protein component of the virus that in the course of an infection in humans results in the production of protective antibodies. This will be inserted into the DNA of an insect virus that is harmless to humans and because of other genetic modifications can no longer even infect its natural insect host. However, this modified virus can still be amplified in vats of insect cells grown in artificial nutrients. Simultaneously, it also produces the protein from CCHF virus. This can be isolated from the insect cells, purified and used subsequently in trials to determine if it is a suitable candidate for use as a vaccine. While initially producing the prototype CCHF virus vaccine is a complicated procedure, which requires a specialist laboratory-based facility, its subsequent use is not. All of the procedures necessary to use the prototype can be mimicked in a much simpler facility, using only basic scientific and production equipment. It is the aim of this project to develop CCHF virus vaccines that can be produced locally, where they are needed. The platform technology we develop will also be readily transferable to make vaccines for a number of other diseases related to CCHF virus that are likely to pose significant problems for human populations in the next few years.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",217428,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972227"
"134","972227",2,"Development of an economically viable CCHF virus vaccine for local production","Some of the deadliest diseases we know about occur in areas of the world least well equipped to deal with them. The fact that they rarely cause problems in developed countries has hampered the production of preventative vaccines. Interest in these so called neglected diseases is limited owing to the small markets involved and poorly resourced healthcare. An example is Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF) virus, a severe disease that outbreaks sporadically in Africa, the Balkans, the Middle East and Asia. The virus is spread to humans via tick bites or contact with virus-infected animals, which rarely suffer disease, or other virus-infected humans. Flu-like symptoms develop within a week, with progression in 75% of cases to signs of haemorrhage including nosebleeds, vomiting and black stools. The liver becomes swollen and painful. Kidney function can also be affected with failure in the most severe cases. The mortality rate for the disease is 10-40%. One of the problems in developing such a vaccine is that as CCHF is so hazardous, any studies to produce a vaccine based on the intact virus must be conducted in specialized, high containment facilities. Although vaccines may be derived from inactivated, non-infectious CCHF virus, these have been shown to be toxic. An alternative approach is proposed in this project. We will use information about the genetics of CCHF virus to design a synthetic gene that has the code for making a protein component of the virus that in the course of an infection in humans results in the production of protective antibodies. This will be inserted into the DNA of an insect virus that is harmless to humans and because of other genetic modifications can no longer even infect its natural insect host. However, this modified virus can still be amplified in vats of insect cells grown in artificial nutrients. Simultaneously, it also produces the protein from CCHF virus. This can be isolated from the insect cells, purified and used subsequently in trials to determine if it is a suitable candidate for use as a vaccine. While initially producing the prototype CCHF virus vaccine is a complicated procedure, which requires a specialist laboratory-based facility, its subsequent use is not. All of the procedures necessary to use the prototype can be mimicked in a much simpler facility, using only basic scientific and production equipment. It is the aim of this project to develop CCHF virus vaccines that can be produced locally, where they are needed. The platform technology we develop will also be readily transferable to make vaccines for a number of other diseases related to CCHF virus that are likely to pose significant problems for human populations in the next few years.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",217428,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972227"
"135","972228",2,"Self-Administered Vaccines Directed Against Plague and MERS","The objective of this proposal is to develop a technology platform for producing safe, temperature-stable vaccines for global diseases. A particular focus will be self-administered delivery by oral vaccination because this can be carried out efficiently in resource-poor settings and is highly desirable to prevent serious endemic diseases in at-risk populations. Using our innovative oral vaccine formulation technology, we intend to formulate recombinant protective antigens to protect against the serious diseases of MERS and plague for which no licensed vaccines currently exist. The applicant, Proxima Concepts Ltd, will supplement its in-house formulation expertise with input from contracted partners that have state-of-the-arts capabilities in recombinant antigen production, preclinical vaccine testing (DSTL), protein antigen stabilisation and formulation (University of Strathclyde). This combined expertise will enable us to demonstrate the scientific and technical feasibility of developing a candidate vaccine for each of the indications over the 12 months of the project. In addition the project is designed to generate sufficient pre-clinical data to support the planned transition towards clinical development.
 
The basic concept for these vaccines is that an injected priming dose would be administered by trained medical personnel in a health centre. The patient would then return home and subsequently self-administer the boost(s) by taking an enteric-coated capsule containing an oral formulation of the same vaccine

This programme of work will produce stable vaccine formulations which can be rapidly and cost-effectively manufactured in an emergency situation and quickly deployed in potential epidemic areas. The combination of an injected prime and oral boost is an innovative approach to vaccines for prevention of respiratory infections but could potentially provide a platform for protecting against other epidemic diseases.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",495000,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972228"
"136","972228",2,"Self-Administered Vaccines Directed Against Plague and MERS","The objective of this proposal is to develop a technology platform for producing safe, temperature-stable vaccines for global diseases. A particular focus will be self-administered delivery by oral vaccination because this can be carried out efficiently in resource-poor settings and is highly desirable to prevent serious endemic diseases in at-risk populations. Using our innovative oral vaccine formulation technology, we intend to formulate recombinant protective antigens to protect against the serious diseases of MERS and plague for which no licensed vaccines currently exist. The applicant, Proxima Concepts Ltd, will supplement its in-house formulation expertise with input from contracted partners that have state-of-the-arts capabilities in recombinant antigen production, preclinical vaccine testing (DSTL), protein antigen stabilisation and formulation (University of Strathclyde). This combined expertise will enable us to demonstrate the scientific and technical feasibility of developing a candidate vaccine for each of the indications over the 12 months of the project. In addition the project is designed to generate sufficient pre-clinical data to support the planned transition towards clinical development.
 
The basic concept for these vaccines is that an injected priming dose would be administered by trained medical personnel in a health centre. The patient would then return home and subsequently self-administer the boost(s) by taking an enteric-coated capsule containing an oral formulation of the same vaccine

This programme of work will produce stable vaccine formulations which can be rapidly and cost-effectively manufactured in an emergency situation and quickly deployed in potential epidemic areas. The combination of an injected prime and oral boost is an innovative approach to vaccines for prevention of respiratory infections but could potentially provide a platform for protecting against other epidemic diseases.","2016-09-01","2017-08-31",495000,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972228"
"137","972229",2,"Development of a novel vaccine for rapid response against Plague","The aim of this project is to create a novel and innovative vaccine against plague (Yersinia pestis) by using a potent vaccine delivery technology highly suitable for outbreak situations in low-income countries. Plague is a highly contagious and virulent infectious disease transmitted to humans by flea bites. Since the 1990s, the number of human plague cases has increased in 25 countries, and plague is now classified as a re-emerging infectious disease for: 1. the presence of large reservoirs in African, Asian and American continents, 2. its endemicity throughout the world resulting in sporadic infections, including recent outbreaks in the 21st century, 3. the requirement to start antibiotic treatment of pneumonic plague within 24 h after the onset of symptoms (otherwise 100% fatal), 4. its potential use as a bioweapon due to its extreme virulence and ease of spreading (through aerosol), and 5. the recent emergence of antibiotic-resistance strains. Vaccine development efforts against plague have been dominated by the use of live attenuated vaccines and sub-unit proteins. Live attenuated vaccines pose significant safety concerns and the level of protection achieved is debated. Sub-unit proteins in adjuvant have demonstrated a certain degree of protection in animal models, but the immune response seems limited to antibodies while a cellular response correlates with increased efficacy. These vaccines have however greatly contributed to the identification of immune correlates of protection. In this context, our proposed solution is to use viral vectors as a delivery platform. We propose to use this type of vaccine technology, for the first time, based on harmless replication-incompetent viruses, currently developed against numerous infectious diseases including Ebola, malaria and HIV, but not yet investigated for plague. This technology is highly suitable for diseases for which cellular immune response are required for protection, in addition to antibody responses, and is also suited to outbreak situation in low-income countries (as for the recent Ebola outbreak, where all vaccines developed were based on viral vectors). We will use several plague proteins known to elicit protective immune responses and insert them into our latest and most potent viral vaccine vectors, which we found to be highly immunogenic in recent clinical trials including against flu and Ebola. Our group has expertise in delivering bacterial proteins to the immune system by inserting them into such viral vectors including adenovirus (usually responsible for colds) rendered harmless by genetic modification. We will investigate the immune responses and level of protection induced by these novel vaccines in animal models and identify the most potent candidate. If successful, this project will provide a strong case for testing of this new plague vaccine in people","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",359777,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972229"
"138","972229",2,"Development of a novel vaccine for rapid response against Plague","The aim of this project is to create a novel and innovative vaccine against plague (Yersinia pestis) by using a potent vaccine delivery technology highly suitable for outbreak situations in low-income countries. Plague is a highly contagious and virulent infectious disease transmitted to humans by flea bites. Since the 1990s, the number of human plague cases has increased in 25 countries, and plague is now classified as a re-emerging infectious disease for: 1. the presence of large reservoirs in African, Asian and American continents, 2. its endemicity throughout the world resulting in sporadic infections, including recent outbreaks in the 21st century, 3. the requirement to start antibiotic treatment of pneumonic plague within 24 h after the onset of symptoms (otherwise 100% fatal), 4. its potential use as a bioweapon due to its extreme virulence and ease of spreading (through aerosol), and 5. the recent emergence of antibiotic-resistance strains. Vaccine development efforts against plague have been dominated by the use of live attenuated vaccines and sub-unit proteins. Live attenuated vaccines pose significant safety concerns and the level of protection achieved is debated. Sub-unit proteins in adjuvant have demonstrated a certain degree of protection in animal models, but the immune response seems limited to antibodies while a cellular response correlates with increased efficacy. These vaccines have however greatly contributed to the identification of immune correlates of protection. In this context, our proposed solution is to use viral vectors as a delivery platform. We propose to use this type of vaccine technology, for the first time, based on harmless replication-incompetent viruses, currently developed against numerous infectious diseases including Ebola, malaria and HIV, but not yet investigated for plague. This technology is highly suitable for diseases for which cellular immune response are required for protection, in addition to antibody responses, and is also suited to outbreak situation in low-income countries (as for the recent Ebola outbreak, where all vaccines developed were based on viral vectors). We will use several plague proteins known to elicit protective immune responses and insert them into our latest and most potent viral vaccine vectors, which we found to be highly immunogenic in recent clinical trials including against flu and Ebola. Our group has expertise in delivering bacterial proteins to the immune system by inserting them into such viral vectors including adenovirus (usually responsible for colds) rendered harmless by genetic modification. We will investigate the immune responses and level of protection induced by these novel vaccines in animal models and identify the most potent candidate. If successful, this project will provide a strong case for testing of this new plague vaccine in people","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",359777,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972229"
"139","972230",2,"‘Plug and Display’ Virus-like Particle Platform for Rapid Response Vaccination Response Vaccination","Virus-like particles (VLP) are a platform technology that are used to produce vaccines against many different diseases. These technologies are particularly suited for the induction of strong antibody responses, which they achieve through presentation of an ordered antigen array to the immune system. Many different types of VLP vaccine have been tested in preclinical studies and some licensed vaccines employ this technology, such as the hepatitis B vaccine. The Jenner Institute and Biochemistry Department at the University of Oxford have recently established a platform VLP vaccine technology for irreversibly decorating VLPs simply by mixing with protein antigen in a &quot;plug-and-display&quot; manner. Critically, this approach overcomes the well-described challenges of producing VLP carriers with complex antigens genetically-fused on their surface, or low conjugation efficiency often reported when using chemical conjugation. In this project we will generate VLP vaccines that display key target antigen from outbreak viral pathogens. In order to do this, we will make use of the novel SpyCatcher-SpyTag technology platform to 'plug-and-display' target antigens on the VLPs. This technology allows for the rapid and efficient formation of a spontaneous isopeptide bond (irreversible linking) between the small SpyCatcher (10 kDa) on the VLP carrier surface and a short versatile 13 amino acid SpyTag incorporated within the antigen. This strategy is versatile and particularly useful for rapidly generating VLP vaccines to emerging and outbreak pathogens of public health concern. We will initially generate a universal VLP carrier that can be utilised for this technology platform. In parallel we will express the Ebola, Marburg, Zika and Chikungunya virus glycoproteins fused to SpyTag, fuse them to the VLP carrier, and test the immunogencity and in vitro immuno-efficacy providing comparison wherever possible to other leading technologies. We also provide proof-of-concept using a second Tag-Catcher system, that bivalent vaccines targeting two related pathogens, e.g. Ebola and Marburgh, can also be rapidly and easily generated. Once this platform technology is established, the universal VLP carrier will be available for display of antigens identified from future outbreak or emerging pathogens. Once the carrier platform is produced to cGMP, rapid vaccine production will simply rely on the expression of SpyTagged antigen relevant to the outbreak pathogen and rapid irreversible fusion to the VLP carrier. This technology platform will provide a rapid route to production of a final one-component VLP vaccine that is highly immunogenic and suited for single or repeated homologous immunisation.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",394427,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972230"
"140","972230",2,"‘Plug and Display’ Virus-like Particle Platform for Rapid Response Vaccination Response Vaccination","Virus-like particles (VLP) are a platform technology that are used to produce vaccines against many different diseases. These technologies are particularly suited for the induction of strong antibody responses, which they achieve through presentation of an ordered antigen array to the immune system. Many different types of VLP vaccine have been tested in preclinical studies and some licensed vaccines employ this technology, such as the hepatitis B vaccine. The Jenner Institute and Biochemistry Department at the University of Oxford have recently established a platform VLP vaccine technology for irreversibly decorating VLPs simply by mixing with protein antigen in a &quot;plug-and-display&quot; manner. Critically, this approach overcomes the well-described challenges of producing VLP carriers with complex antigens genetically-fused on their surface, or low conjugation efficiency often reported when using chemical conjugation. In this project we will generate VLP vaccines that display key target antigen from outbreak viral pathogens. In order to do this, we will make use of the novel SpyCatcher-SpyTag technology platform to 'plug-and-display' target antigens on the VLPs. This technology allows for the rapid and efficient formation of a spontaneous isopeptide bond (irreversible linking) between the small SpyCatcher (10 kDa) on the VLP carrier surface and a short versatile 13 amino acid SpyTag incorporated within the antigen. This strategy is versatile and particularly useful for rapidly generating VLP vaccines to emerging and outbreak pathogens of public health concern. We will initially generate a universal VLP carrier that can be utilised for this technology platform. In parallel we will express the Ebola, Marburg, Zika and Chikungunya virus glycoproteins fused to SpyTag, fuse them to the VLP carrier, and test the immunogencity and in vitro immuno-efficacy providing comparison wherever possible to other leading technologies. We also provide proof-of-concept using a second Tag-Catcher system, that bivalent vaccines targeting two related pathogens, e.g. Ebola and Marburgh, can also be rapidly and easily generated. Once this platform technology is established, the universal VLP carrier will be available for display of antigens identified from future outbreak or emerging pathogens. Once the carrier platform is produced to cGMP, rapid vaccine production will simply rely on the expression of SpyTagged antigen relevant to the outbreak pathogen and rapid irreversible fusion to the VLP carrier. This technology platform will provide a rapid route to production of a final one-component VLP vaccine that is highly immunogenic and suited for single or repeated homologous immunisation.","2016-10-01","2017-09-30",394427,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972230"
"141","972236",2,"An Oral Zika Vaccine","“During the Phase 1 Innovate UK funded programme Stabilitech demonstrated that a thermally stabilised oral capsule delivering a vaccine-inducing viral vector to the gastrointestinal tract can stimulating systemic immunity. In these studies, the viral vector was designed to transduce expression of Zika virus antigens, giving rise to specific antibodies providing protective response from live virus challenge in preclinical models.

During the Phase 2 programme Stabilitech will further develop this novel Zika virus vaccine to First-in-Human ready. Within this development phase Stabilitech will optimise viral yields from culture and in vitro (dissolution) release characteristics of the capsule in the alimentary canal, with protective efficacy indication following viral challenge. Once optimisation has been performed Stabilitech will prepare under CDMO contract GMP (engineering and production) lots of the vaccine, perform non-clinical immunological and safety testing requirements as provided in the guidance provided in CPMP/SWP/465/95. The overall aim by the end of the proposed program of work, is a CTA ready package to facility small scale human clinical trials.","2018-02-01","2021-04-30",2433323,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972236"
"142","972236",2,"An Oral Zika Vaccine","“During the Phase 1 Innovate UK funded programme Stabilitech demonstrated that a thermally stabilised oral capsule delivering a vaccine-inducing viral vector to the gastrointestinal tract can stimulating systemic immunity. In these studies, the viral vector was designed to transduce expression of Zika virus antigens, giving rise to specific antibodies providing protective response from live virus challenge in preclinical models.

During the Phase 2 programme Stabilitech will further develop this novel Zika virus vaccine to First-in-Human ready. Within this development phase Stabilitech will optimise viral yields from culture and in vitro (dissolution) release characteristics of the capsule in the alimentary canal, with protective efficacy indication following viral challenge. Once optimisation has been performed Stabilitech will prepare under CDMO contract GMP (engineering and production) lots of the vaccine, perform non-clinical immunological and safety testing requirements as provided in the guidance provided in CPMP/SWP/465/95. The overall aim by the end of the proposed program of work, is a CTA ready package to facility small scale human clinical trials.","2018-02-01","2021-06-30",2443209,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972236"
"143","972237",2,"Development of an economically viable CCHF virus vaccine","Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic Fever (CCHF) is a serious virus (v) disease primarily transmitted to humans by ticks. The mortality rate is up to 40% with survivors experiencing long term debilitating health problems that have socio-economic impact at all levels. Incidences of the disease are increasing, with outbreaks across much of sub-Saharan Africa, large parts of Asia, Southern Russia and the Arabian Peninsula. There have been cases in Spain and Greece with CCHF endemic in Turkey. The expanding geographic range of the tick host along with trade in infected but nonsymptomatic livestock is fuelling the spread of CCHF. There is no vaccine currently available so public health measures are the only options to prevent virus spread. Virus outbreaks most often occur in agricultural areas in workers who have had close contact with animals, spreading to family members. Thus CCHF, along with some of the world’s other deadliest diseases, affects areas least able to deal with them or afford to develop vaccines. These diseases rarely cause problems in developed countries so there has hitherto been little interest in the development of preventative vaccines, although CCHF is now knocking on the door of Western Europe. Commercial interest in these so called neglected diseases is limited owing to the relatively small and intermittent markets. A further problem in developing a vaccine for CCHFv is that it is hazardous to work with, and so research to produce a vaccine based on the intact virus must be conducted in specialized, high containment facilities. Vaccines may be derived from inactivated, non-infectious CCHFv, but these have been shown to be toxic. We propose an alternative approach, which is based on successful pilot work we carried out over the past year. We used information about the genetics of CCHFv to design synthetic genes for making protein components of the virus outer coat that during an infection in humans should result in the production of a protective immune response. In this project we will optimise production of our candidate vaccine using an innovative, safe insect virus vector produced in insect cells that are easy to grow to a scale in simple culture vessels. We will fully characterise the properties of the vaccine and carry out initial safety and potency tests to facilitate future clinical trials. We will also optimise vaccine production to achieve stable material over a range of temperatures to minimise reliance on cold chain supply in target countries. While initially producing the prototype CCHFv vaccine is a complicated procedure, which requires a specialist laboratory-based facilities, its subsequent use is not. All of the procedures necessary to use the prototype can be mimicked in a much simpler facility, using only basic scientific and production equipment. It is therefore an associated aim of our project to develop a CCHFv vaccine that could be produced locally, for example in emergency outbreak situations. The platform technology we develop will also be readily transferable to make vaccines for a number of other diseases similar to CCHFv that already, or are likely to, pose significant problems for human populations in the next few years. An added advantage of our insect production system is the ability to respond quickly to emerging threats - we can move from gene to protein/vaccine in as little as eight weeks.","2018-02-01","2022-01-31",2173000,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972237"
"144","972237",2,"Development of an economically viable CCHF virus vaccine","Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic Fever (CCHF) is a serious virus (v) disease primarily transmitted to humans by ticks. The mortality rate is up to 40% with survivors experiencing long term debilitating health problems that have socio-economic impact at all levels. Incidences of the disease are increasing, with outbreaks across much of sub-Saharan Africa, large parts of Asia, Southern Russia and the Arabian Peninsula. There have been cases in Spain and Greece with CCHF endemic in Turkey. The expanding geographic range of the tick host along with trade in infected but nonsymptomatic livestock is fuelling the spread of CCHF. There is no vaccine currently available so public health measures are the only options to prevent virus spread. Virus outbreaks most often occur in agricultural areas in workers who have had close contact with animals, spreading to family members. Thus CCHF, along with some of the world’s other deadliest diseases, affects areas least able to deal with them or afford to develop vaccines. These diseases rarely cause problems in developed countries so there has hitherto been little interest in the development of preventative vaccines, although CCHF is now knocking on the door of Western Europe. Commercial interest in these so called neglected diseases is limited owing to the relatively small and intermittent markets. A further problem in developing a vaccine for CCHFv is that it is hazardous to work with, and so research to produce a vaccine based on the intact virus must be conducted in specialized, high containment facilities. Vaccines may be derived from inactivated, non-infectious CCHFv, but these have been shown to be toxic. We propose an alternative approach, which is based on successful pilot work we carried out over the past year. We used information about the genetics of CCHFv to design synthetic genes for making protein components of the virus outer coat that during an infection in humans should result in the production of a protective immune response. In this project we will optimise production of our candidate vaccine using an innovative, safe insect virus vector produced in insect cells that are easy to grow to a scale in simple culture vessels. We will fully characterise the properties of the vaccine and carry out initial safety and potency tests to facilitate future clinical trials. We will also optimise vaccine production to achieve stable material over a range of temperatures to minimise reliance on cold chain supply in target countries. While initially producing the prototype CCHFv vaccine is a complicated procedure, which requires a specialist laboratory-based facilities, its subsequent use is not. All of the procedures necessary to use the prototype can be mimicked in a much simpler facility, using only basic scientific and production equipment. It is therefore an associated aim of our project to develop a CCHFv vaccine that could be produced locally, for example in emergency outbreak situations. The platform technology we develop will also be readily transferable to make vaccines for a number of other diseases similar to CCHFv that already, or are likely to, pose significant problems for human populations in the next few years. An added advantage of our insect production system is the ability to respond quickly to emerging threats - we can move from gene to protein/vaccine in as little as eight weeks.","2018-02-01","2021-07-31",217428,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972237"
"145","972238",2,"Clinical Development of a Zika Vaccine Avoiding Disease Enhancement","The Zika pandemic is a global problem with profound consequences for nations and families that will take decades to unfold, with an estimated 2.3 billion people at high or very high risk of infection (Alaniz AJ, 2017). However, Zika does not exist in isolation and is only one cog in a complex ecosystem of virus interactions where infection (or vaccination) of a human subject can give rise to antibodies that influence the course of other infections both positively and negatively. Zika is closely related to dengue (another virus infection, spread by the same mosquitoes), which is responsible for 390 million infections annually, and which is capable of causing life-threatening haemorrhagic fever. According to WHO, &quot;An estimated 500 000 people with severe dengue require hospitalization each year, and about 2.5% of those affected die.&quot;. Recently, a new vaccine was licensed against dengue. While it is of net benefit to endemic populations (66% effective), on an individual basis it occasionally gives rise to severe dengue (the very disease it prevents in the majority of subjects) by generating antibodies that (paradoxically) enhance rather than prevent infection, requiring hospitalisation. Disease enhancement (eg. predisposition to severe dengue) is likewise a palpable risk for Zika vaccines in development, which may cause harm as well as good, depending on how a subject's immune system is conditioned by a Zika vaccine to respond to subsequent dengue infection or vaccination. Whether novel Zika vaccines succeed or fail may well depend on their capacity to avoid the generation of dengue-enhancing antibodies that have adverse consequences upon subsequent exposure to dengue. In the course of our recently completed Stage-I SBRI project 972224, starting genuinely from scratch, we made remarkable progress by developing and patenting a Zika vaccine candidate designed to avoid the generation of enhancing antibodies and predisposition to severe dengue. The Examiner has speedily approved all of the claims we made in the patent application (which was made under the Green Channel scheme). In the course of a second (diagnostic) SBRI project (971509, ongoing) we have explored several methods of production of the novel Zika vaccine antigen and have developed an efficient method ready to commence formally manufacturing development for vaccine use. Also, the 'pregnancy-test-like' point-of-cate diagnostic we have developed in 971509 can be deployed to identify suitable endemic locations for clinical trials (Phase-II) by allowing a very accurate and 'up-to-date' poll of Zika activity. In the present project we now propose to enter preclinical safety testing and early-stage (Phase-I) clinical studies - the latter to be sponsored by a partner company, spurred on by the advantages of our vaccine offering in concert with the strategic value of the diagnostic in enabling later-stage clinical trials.","2018-02-01","2020-10-31",2e+06,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972238"
"146","972238",2,"Clinical Development of a Zika Vaccine Avoiding Disease Enhancement","The Zika pandemic is a global problem with profound consequences for nations and families that will take decades to unfold, with an estimated 2.3 billion people at high or very high risk of infection (Alaniz AJ, 2017). However, Zika does not exist in isolation and is only one cog in a complex ecosystem of virus interactions where infection (or vaccination) of a human subject can give rise to antibodies that influence the course of other infections both positively and negatively. Zika is closely related to dengue (another virus infection, spread by the same mosquitoes), which is responsible for 390 million infections annually, and which is capable of causing life-threatening haemorrhagic fever. According to WHO, &quot;An estimated 500 000 people with severe dengue require hospitalization each year, and about 2.5% of those affected die.&quot;. Recently, a new vaccine was licensed against dengue. While it is of net benefit to endemic populations (66% effective), on an individual basis it occasionally gives rise to severe dengue (the very disease it prevents in the majority of subjects) by generating antibodies that (paradoxically) enhance rather than prevent infection, requiring hospitalisation. Disease enhancement (eg. predisposition to severe dengue) is likewise a palpable risk for Zika vaccines in development, which may cause harm as well as good, depending on how a subject's immune system is conditioned by a Zika vaccine to respond to subsequent dengue infection or vaccination. Whether novel Zika vaccines succeed or fail may well depend on their capacity to avoid the generation of dengue-enhancing antibodies that have adverse consequences upon subsequent exposure to dengue. In the course of our recently completed Stage-I SBRI project 972224, starting genuinely from scratch, we made remarkable progress by developing and patenting a Zika vaccine candidate designed to avoid the generation of enhancing antibodies and predisposition to severe dengue. The Examiner has speedily approved all of the claims we made in the patent application (which was made under the Green Channel scheme). In the course of a second (diagnostic) SBRI project (971509, ongoing) we have explored several methods of production of the novel Zika vaccine antigen and have developed an efficient method ready to commence formally manufacturing development for vaccine use. Also, the 'pregnancy-test-like' point-of-cate diagnostic we have developed in 971509 can be deployed to identify suitable endemic locations for clinical trials (Phase-II) by allowing a very accurate and 'up-to-date' poll of Zika activity. In the present project we now propose to enter preclinical safety testing and early-stage (Phase-I) clinical studies - the latter to be sponsored by a partner company, spurred on by the advantages of our vaccine offering in concert with the strategic value of the diagnostic in enabling later-stage clinical trials.","2018-02-01","2021-03-31",2e+06,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972238"
"147","972239",2,"IMPROVED Q FEVER VACCINE (DSTL, PHE, ICENI DX &amp; MOLOGIC)","This project addresses the need for new vaccines for global epidemics by the development of a virus-like particle (VLP) based platform technology to deliver a vaccine against Q Fever. The causal agent of Q fever, Coxiella burnetii has been identified as an agent of concern due to its low infectious dose, the ability of the organism to survive for long periods in the environment and cause significant outbreaks in both humans and animals. Outbreaks of Q fever are recorded in humans and animals on an annual basis, worldwide. Acute infection with C. burnetii usually presents as a self-limiting febrile illness often accompanied by severe headaches and in severe cases atypical pneumonia occurs. Chronic disease, typically presenting as endocarditis, occurs in approximately 5 % of cases and without treatment is usually fatal. Formed of the proteins that assemble to form the viral structure such as the capsid or envelope, a VLP mimics an invading virus but is unable to infect and cause infection as it does not contain the necessary genetic code. When used for immunisation, VLPs are recognised as foreign agents and the densely packed arrangement of antigens on the surface of the particles elicits a strong immune response. Mologic have developed a derivative of the Hepatitis B virus core VLP which allows the attachment of unrelated antigens, for example from other viruses or bacteria, to the surface of the particle such that they are displayed to the immune system with the same immunogenic characteristics as a whole virus. The SBRI funding “New vaccines for global epidemics: development and manufacture” has allowed further exploitation of this VLP technology using the causal agent of Q Fever (Coxiella burnetii) as a target and enabled collaboration with experts from Dstl, PHE and Iceni Diagnostics, without whom the project would not have been feasible. The consortium now wish to further develop the technology to test the efficacy of candidate vaccines against challenge with Coxiella burnetii. This will allow us to identify the most effective candidates for scaled up production and further studies to determine optimal formulations and dosage. The phase 2 study will fund the development of the vaccine platform to a stage that it is ready for commercialisation, manufacture and GLP pre-clinical testing.","2018-02-01","2022-03-31",1993857,"GBP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972239"
"148","972239",2,"IMPROVED Q FEVER VACCINE (DSTL, PHE, ICENI DX &amp; MOLOGIC)","This project addresses the need for new vaccines for global epidemics by the development of a virus-like particle (VLP) based platform technology to deliver a vaccine against Q Fever. The causal agent of Q fever, Coxiella burnetii has been identified as an agent of concern due to its low infectious dose, the ability of the organism to survive for long periods in the environment and cause significant outbreaks in both humans and animals. Outbreaks of Q fever are recorded in humans and animals on an annual basis, worldwide. Acute infection with C. burnetii usually presents as a self-limiting febrile illness often accompanied by severe headaches and in severe cases atypical pneumonia occurs. Chronic disease, typically presenting as endocarditis, occurs in approximately 5 % of cases and without treatment is usually fatal. Formed of the proteins that assemble to form the viral structure such as the capsid or envelope, a VLP mimics an invading virus but is unable to infect and cause infection as it does not contain the necessary genetic code. When used for immunisation, VLPs are recognised as foreign agents and the densely packed arrangement of antigens on the surface of the particles elicits a strong immune response. Mologic have developed a derivative of the Hepatitis B virus core VLP which allows the attachment of unrelated antigens, for example from other viruses or bacteria, to the surface of the particle such that they are displayed to the immune system with the same immunogenic characteristics as a whole virus. The SBRI funding “New vaccines for global epidemics: development and manufacture” has allowed further exploitation of this VLP technology using the causal agent of Q Fever (Coxiella burnetii) as a target and enabled collaboration with experts from Dstl, PHE and Iceni Diagnostics, without whom the project would not have been feasible. The consortium now wish to further develop the technology to test the efficacy of candidate vaccines against challenge with Coxiella burnetii. This will allow us to identify the most effective candidates for scaled up production and further studies to determine optimal formulations and dosage. The phase 2 study will fund the development of the vaccine platform to a stage that it is ready for commercialisation, manufacture and GLP pre-clinical testing.","2018-02-01","2022-03-31",1994035,"GDP","Innovate UK","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=972239"
"149","BB/R019800/1",2,"Vaccines and molecular tools for the control of the emerging bunyavirus, severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome phlebovirus (SFTSV)","Viruses in the newly formed order Bunyavirales are frequently arthropod-transmitted with many members capable of causing substantial human, animal and disease. The WHO has identified several bunyaviruses as key emerging pathogens, and this call entitled &quot;One health approaches to accelerate vaccine development&quot; also emphasizes interest in this group of viruses. This project focuses on severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome phlebovirus (SFTS phlebovirus; SFTSV) of the Phenuiviridae family of bunyaviruses which also includes significant emerging pathogens in both Asia and the USA (Heartland virus, HRTV). To date, over 2500 SFTSV cases have been reported in China, 172 cases in South Korea and 96 cases in Japan, with case fatality rates ranging from 8.2% to 32.6%. The annual incidence of reporting is increasing in all endemic countries, e.g. in China where 53 cases were reported in 2010, compared to 676 in 2013. To address the threat posed by novel, emerging bunyaviruses, scientists at the MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research (CVR) have developed a &quot;reverse genetics&quot; system with which SFTSV can be manipulated, and which permit the rational design of rationally attenuated virus vaccine candidates. Such reverse genetics systems enable the rapid recovery of replication competent bunyaviruses from plasmids encoding cDNA copies of the viral genomic RNA. This technology facilitates the mapping of epitopes targeted by the humoral and cellular immune response as well as the identification and manipulation of virally-encoded virulence factors. The NSs proteins of many bunyaviruses are recognised as virulence factors due to their ability to counteract the mammalian innate immune responses. Hence, these reverse genetics-based strategies offer a realistic means to develop rational vaccine candidates for emerging bunyaviral diseases, as well as the development of viruses that help to further elucidate the immune responses mounted to infection and viral pathogenesis. We have now generated a recombinant NSs-deletant SFTSV (called SFTSVdelNSs) which is unable to antagonise type I interferon responses mounted in response to infection. This facilitates the studies into the role of innate immune responses in controlling SFTSV, as well as in vivo tissue tropism and pathogenesis in absence of the virulence factor NSs, leading to the evaluation of such potentially attenuated viruses as vaccine candidates. The strengths of reverse genetics-based approaches to producing recombinant bunyaviruses extends beyond the production of attenuated virus vaccine candidates. The system also allows the development and production of virus-like particles (VLPs). Both recombinant viruses and VLPs can be tested for their ability to induce immune responses in immunised animals as well as protective vaccine candidates. This proposal will bring together CVR and Beijing Institutes of Life Science (BIOLS) researchers to elucidate host immune responses to SFTSV infection and pathogenesis, the development of recombinant virus vaccine candidates and tools to further study SFTSV.

Aim 1. To elucidate the contribution of SFTSV NSs to in vivo tissue tropism and pathogenesis. We will also assess a recombinant SFTSV (lacking NSs; SFTSVdelNSs) as vaccine candidate in comparison to VLPs.

Aim 2. To produce novel neutralising antibodies against SFTSV for basic research and as potential therapeutic agents. We will investigate antibody responses using a novel SFTS viruses expressing reporter genes to study immune responses in both patient sera and infected animals. This will allow us to define the breadth of the neutralising antibody responses and to map antigenic determinants on the virion. Antigenic variation and escape from neutralisation of the SFTSV Gn structural protein (known target for antibody responses) will be investigated through mutational analysis. 

The project will also include training in reverse genetics technology for the partner BIOLS.","2018-05-01","2021-12-31",895688,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R019800/1"
"150","BB/R019800/1",2,"Vaccines and molecular tools for the control of the emerging bunyavirus, severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome phlebovirus (SFTSV)","Viruses in the newly formed order Bunyavirales are frequently arthropod-transmitted with many members capable of causing substantial human, animal and disease. The WHO has identified several bunyaviruses as key emerging pathogens, and this call entitled &quot;One health approaches to accelerate vaccine development&quot; also emphasizes interest in this group of viruses. This project focuses on severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome phlebovirus (SFTS phlebovirus; SFTSV) of the Phenuiviridae family of bunyaviruses which also includes significant emerging pathogens in both Asia and the USA (Heartland virus, HRTV). To date, over 2500 SFTSV cases have been reported in China, 172 cases in South Korea and 96 cases in Japan, with case fatality rates ranging from 8.2% to 32.6%. The annual incidence of reporting is increasing in all endemic countries, e.g. in China where 53 cases were reported in 2010, compared to 676 in 2013. To address the threat posed by novel, emerging bunyaviruses, scientists at the MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research (CVR) have developed a &quot;reverse genetics&quot; system with which SFTSV can be manipulated, and which permit the rational design of rationally attenuated virus vaccine candidates. Such reverse genetics systems enable the rapid recovery of replication competent bunyaviruses from plasmids encoding cDNA copies of the viral genomic RNA. This technology facilitates the mapping of epitopes targeted by the humoral and cellular immune response as well as the identification and manipulation of virally-encoded virulence factors. The NSs proteins of many bunyaviruses are recognised as virulence factors due to their ability to counteract the mammalian innate immune responses. Hence, these reverse genetics-based strategies offer a realistic means to develop rational vaccine candidates for emerging bunyaviral diseases, as well as the development of viruses that help to further elucidate the immune responses mounted to infection and viral pathogenesis. We have now generated a recombinant NSs-deletant SFTSV (called SFTSVdelNSs) which is unable to antagonise type I interferon responses mounted in response to infection. This facilitates the studies into the role of innate immune responses in controlling SFTSV, as well as in vivo tissue tropism and pathogenesis in absence of the virulence factor NSs, leading to the evaluation of such potentially attenuated viruses as vaccine candidates. The strengths of reverse genetics-based approaches to producing recombinant bunyaviruses extends beyond the production of attenuated virus vaccine candidates. The system also allows the development and production of virus-like particles (VLPs). Both recombinant viruses and VLPs can be tested for their ability to induce immune responses in immunised animals as well as protective vaccine candidates. This proposal will bring together CVR and Beijing Institutes of Life Science (BIOLS) researchers to elucidate host immune responses to SFTSV infection and pathogenesis, the development of recombinant virus vaccine candidates and tools to further study SFTSV.

Aim 1. To elucidate the contribution of SFTSV NSs to in vivo tissue tropism and pathogenesis. We will also assess a recombinant SFTSV (lacking NSs; SFTSVdelNSs) as vaccine candidate in comparison to VLPs.

Aim 2. To produce novel neutralising antibodies against SFTSV for basic research and as potential therapeutic agents. We will investigate antibody responses using a novel SFTS viruses expressing reporter genes to study immune responses in both patient sera and infected animals. This will allow us to define the breadth of the neutralising antibody responses and to map antigenic determinants on the virion. Antigenic variation and escape from neutralisation of the SFTSV Gn structural protein (known target for antibody responses) will be investigated through mutational analysis. 

The project will also include training in reverse genetics technology for the partner BIOLS.","2018-05-01","2021-12-31",895688,"GDP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R019800/1"
"151","BB/R019843/1",2,"A One Health approach to pan-valent morbillivirus vaccines","Paramyxoviruses are a family of viruses that pose a significant threat to humans and animals alike. For example, Hendra virus outbreaks in Australia have targeted both racehorses and their trainers, while Nipah virus outbreaks in Malaysia spread through pig farms, resulting in 105 human fatalities and the culling of approximately 1.1 million pigs. While such cross-species transmission events may occur relatively infrequently, when they do occur, the consequences can be devastating for humans and animals alike. The Paramyxovirus family also includes the morbillivirus genus of viruses, possibly the most notable of which are measles virus in humans and rinderpest virus in cattle. Morbilliviruses of animals have a very high potential for cross-species transmission, or &quot;zoonosis&quot;. Although originally described as a pathogen of dogs, canine distemper virus (CDV) has jumped species into critically endangered lion, tiger, seal and giant panda populations. A closely related morbillivirus of sheep and goats, peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV) has caused severe disease outbreaks in saiga antelope in Mongolia, buffalo in India and camels in Ethiopia and Sudan. If we are to combat the future spread of such zoonotic morbilliviruses, we need to develop a better understanding of the process of cross-species transmission and how this can be prevented by vaccination.

Vaccination against one species of morbillivirus can provide immunity to infection with morbilliviruses from other species; a rinderpest vaccine can protect cattle from rinderpest, a goat from PPRV and a dog from CDV. Vaccination triggers the production of neutralising antibodies (nAbs) targeting the surface glycoproteins of the virus, hence, some of these antibodies must recognize determinants that are conserved across diverse morbilliviruses. In this project, we set out to identify the determinants on the viral surface glycoproteins that are recognised by neutralising antibodies. If these binding sites can be identified, we will be able to design better pan-morbilliviral vaccines, vaccines that will protect against cross-species infection with emerging morbilliviruses.

To achieve this goal, we have designed in vitro systems with which we can recreate the cellular environment of the susceptible host species. Morbilliviruses attach to target cells by binding to either of two protein molecules expressed on the cell surface, CD150 or nectin-4. Variations in the amino acid sequences of these molecules are key determinants of which species the viruses target, hence CDV is able to bind to CD150 from many species and thus has a very broad species tropism. Neither CDV nor PPRV bind human CD150 well and hence infect human cells very inefficiently. However, with a small adaptation to the amino acid sequence of the viral glycoproteins, binding is enhanced greatly and the viruses display an enhanced ability to infect human cells. We have developed assays with which we can study the propensity for morbilliviruses to develop such mutations. Moreover, we can assess how efficient antibodies generated in the host by vaccination are at preventing infection with such viruses. In effect, we have developed systems with which we can determine the likelihood of zoonotic transmission occurring and how to prevent it by vaccination. 

This project will guide the design of the next generation of pan-morbilliviral vaccines and will develop assays systems with which their likely efficacy in preventing zoonoses can be assessed in vitro. By defining the viral targets for neutralising antibodies and by assessing their function against potentially zoonotic viruses, this project offers a unique opportunity to protect both humans and animals alike against the emerging threat posed by novel morbilliviruses.","2018-05-01","2021-12-31",773236,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R019843/1"
"152","BB/R019843/1",2,"A One Health approach to pan-valent morbillivirus vaccines","Paramyxoviruses are a family of viruses that pose a significant threat to humans and animals alike. For example, Hendra virus outbreaks in Australia have targeted both racehorses and their trainers, while Nipah virus outbreaks in Malaysia spread through pig farms, resulting in 105 human fatalities and the culling of approximately 1.1 million pigs. While such cross-species transmission events may occur relatively infrequently, when they do occur, the consequences can be devastating for humans and animals alike. The Paramyxovirus family also includes the morbillivirus genus of viruses, possibly the most notable of which are measles virus in humans and rinderpest virus in cattle. Morbilliviruses of animals have a very high potential for cross-species transmission, or &quot;zoonosis&quot;. Although originally described as a pathogen of dogs, canine distemper virus (CDV) has jumped species into critically endangered lion, tiger, seal and giant panda populations. A closely related morbillivirus of sheep and goats, peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV) has caused severe disease outbreaks in saiga antelope in Mongolia, buffalo in India and camels in Ethiopia and Sudan. If we are to combat the future spread of such zoonotic morbilliviruses, we need to develop a better understanding of the process of cross-species transmission and how this can be prevented by vaccination.

Vaccination against one species of morbillivirus can provide immunity to infection with morbilliviruses from other species; a rinderpest vaccine can protect cattle from rinderpest, a goat from PPRV and a dog from CDV. Vaccination triggers the production of neutralising antibodies (nAbs) targeting the surface glycoproteins of the virus, hence, some of these antibodies must recognize determinants that are conserved across diverse morbilliviruses. In this project, we set out to identify the determinants on the viral surface glycoproteins that are recognised by neutralising antibodies. If these binding sites can be identified, we will be able to design better pan-morbilliviral vaccines, vaccines that will protect against cross-species infection with emerging morbilliviruses.

To achieve this goal, we have designed in vitro systems with which we can recreate the cellular environment of the susceptible host species. Morbilliviruses attach to target cells by binding to either of two protein molecules expressed on the cell surface, CD150 or nectin-4. Variations in the amino acid sequences of these molecules are key determinants of which species the viruses target, hence CDV is able to bind to CD150 from many species and thus has a very broad species tropism. Neither CDV nor PPRV bind human CD150 well and hence infect human cells very inefficiently. However, with a small adaptation to the amino acid sequence of the viral glycoproteins, binding is enhanced greatly and the viruses display an enhanced ability to infect human cells. We have developed assays with which we can study the propensity for morbilliviruses to develop such mutations. Moreover, we can assess how efficient antibodies generated in the host by vaccination are at preventing infection with such viruses. In effect, we have developed systems with which we can determine the likelihood of zoonotic transmission occurring and how to prevent it by vaccination. 

This project will guide the design of the next generation of pan-morbilliviral vaccines and will develop assays systems with which their likely efficacy in preventing zoonoses can be assessed in vitro. By defining the viral targets for neutralising antibodies and by assessing their function against potentially zoonotic viruses, this project offers a unique opportunity to protect both humans and animals alike against the emerging threat posed by novel morbilliviruses.","2018-05-01","2021-12-31",773236,"GDP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R019843/1"
"153","BB/R019975/1",2,"Accelerated development of a safe and easily manufactured Q fever vaccine","Q fever is an important and highly contagious disease of worldwide importance affecting both livestock and humans caused by the intracellular Gram-negative bacterium, Coxiella burnetii. Infection of humans occurs following exposure to as few as 1-10 bacteria and can result in both acute and chronic forms of disease. Infections can result in death, especially in the elderly or immunocompromised. Livestock, in particular sheep and goats, are the major source of human infections where infection can cause abortion, stillbirth and delivery of weak offspring. The loss of lambs and kids can result in devastating economic losses to the livelihoods of farmers in Europe as well as LMIC countries, particularly during abortion storms where up to 35% losses can occur. 

Vaccines are currently considered the most effective way to control Q fever, and vaccines based on inactivated C. burnetii organisms are commercially available for use in both ruminants and humans. However, the safety of these vaccines is a major issue considering that severe local and systemic reactions occur post-vaccination in humans previously exposed to the bacteria and vaccination of ruminants is associated with significant production losses. Furthermore, manufacture of these vaccines involves culture of the organisms, which has both cost and safety issues. These issues have resulted in limited use of these vaccines. There is therefore an urgent need to develop safe, effective and easily manufactured vaccines to control Q fever in both humans and livestock species.

To this end, attempts have been made to develop subunit vaccines targeting key C. burnettii proteins which would be safer to manufacture and could be engineered to induce fewer side effects following vaccination. However, current approaches to subunit vaccine development have been severely hampered by a lack of knowledge of the appropriate bacterial proteins to target.

In this project, we will use novel peptide chip array technology to identify the key C. burnetii proteins recognised by antibodies from sheep and goats vaccinated with the current protective, but unsafe commercial vaccine in a high throughput and detailed manner. These antibody responses will be compared with those generated by a non-protective C. burnetii vaccine which is based on a different (non-virulent) form of the bacteria. By comparing antibody responses from protected and non-protective vaccines, bacterial proteins which are specifically targeted by the protective vaccine will be identified. Synthetic versions of these proteins will then be generated and subunit vaccines based on pools of these proteins will be tested in a sheep challenge model. This will provide preliminary safety and efficacy data to inform future Q fever vaccine development programmes.","2018-05-01","2021-09-30",1150194,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R019975/1"
"154","BB/R019975/1",2,"Accelerated development of a safe and easily manufactured Q fever vaccine","Q fever is an important and highly contagious disease of worldwide importance affecting both livestock and humans caused by the intracellular Gram-negative bacterium, Coxiella burnetii. Infection of humans occurs following exposure to as few as 1-10 bacteria and can result in both acute and chronic forms of disease. Infections can result in death, especially in the elderly or immunocompromised. Livestock, in particular sheep and goats, are the major source of human infections where infection can cause abortion, stillbirth and delivery of weak offspring. The loss of lambs and kids can result in devastating economic losses to the livelihoods of farmers in Europe as well as LMIC countries, particularly during abortion storms where up to 35% losses can occur. 

Vaccines are currently considered the most effective way to control Q fever, and vaccines based on inactivated C. burnetii organisms are commercially available for use in both ruminants and humans. However, the safety of these vaccines is a major issue considering that severe local and systemic reactions occur post-vaccination in humans previously exposed to the bacteria and vaccination of ruminants is associated with significant production losses. Furthermore, manufacture of these vaccines involves culture of the organisms, which has both cost and safety issues. These issues have resulted in limited use of these vaccines. There is therefore an urgent need to develop safe, effective and easily manufactured vaccines to control Q fever in both humans and livestock species.

To this end, attempts have been made to develop subunit vaccines targeting key C. burnettii proteins which would be safer to manufacture and could be engineered to induce fewer side effects following vaccination. However, current approaches to subunit vaccine development have been severely hampered by a lack of knowledge of the appropriate bacterial proteins to target.

In this project, we will use novel peptide chip array technology to identify the key C. burnetii proteins recognised by antibodies from sheep and goats vaccinated with the current protective, but unsafe commercial vaccine in a high throughput and detailed manner. These antibody responses will be compared with those generated by a non-protective C. burnetii vaccine which is based on a different (non-virulent) form of the bacteria. By comparing antibody responses from protected and non-protective vaccines, bacterial proteins which are specifically targeted by the protective vaccine will be identified. Synthetic versions of these proteins will then be generated and subunit vaccines based on pools of these proteins will be tested in a sheep challenge model. This will provide preliminary safety and efficacy data to inform future Q fever vaccine development programmes.","2018-05-01","2021-09-30",1150194,"GDP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R019975/1"
"155","BB/R019991/1",2,"Bunyavirus Immunity Consortium: Delineating the immune response against CCHFV and other Nairoviruses to aid effective vaccine design","Viral haemorrhagic fevers (VHF) are characterised by very high temperatures and bleeding, and are associated with high levels of morbidity and mortality. A number of viruses can cause VHF, including Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV), which is the most widespread, tick-borne viral disease affecting humans. The disease is endemic in many regions, such as Africa, Asia, Eastern and Southern Europe, and Central Asia. CCHFV-associated deaths are estimated to be as high as 30% during outbreak settings. 

The study of VHFs that affect humans is limited by the need to work in high containment laboratories and by the relative absence of easily-accessible and appropriate models of disease. Nairobi sheep disease virus (NSDV) is an important veterinary-specific and naturally occurring VHF of sheep and goats. NSDV infection of small ruminants is associated with high mortality of up to 90% but is of low risk to humans. NSDV is very closely related to CCHFV, and investigation of NSDV will positively inform CCHFV work and vice versa, whilst simultaneously increasing our knowledge of VHFs and helping inform vaccine development. 

The immune response that protects post-exposure to CCHFV and NSDV remains unknown. However, there are no reports of patients being re-infected with CCHFV and disease outbreaks of NSDV only occur when naive animals are moved to an enzootic area; suggesting that prior exposure can result in protective immunity. Delineating the immune response following CCHFV/ NSDV infection is the main objective of this project. 

Detailed studies of the immune response in recovery post VHF will be achieved through the assessment of antibody functionality, antigenic profiling and B-cell cohort evaluation. The functionality, population cohorts and type of recall response for T-cell immune responses against CCHF and NSDV, in exposed humans and animals, will also be measured. This will help define the breadth and repertoire of immunity needed to develop protective immunity and in this manner identify the protein(s) of choice for vaccine inclusion. 

We will therefore assess the immune responses post exposure to nairoviuses (e.g. CCHFV and/ or NSDV) foreseeing that this immune profiling will identify antigenic targets to become vaccine components in elimination campaigns which will directly and positively impact the economy, health and welfare of endemic countries. This is the principle and direct aim of this research proposal.","2018-05-01","2022-03-31",1129722,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R019991/1"
"156","BB/R019991/1",2,"Bunyavirus Immunity Consortium: Delineating the immune response against CCHFV and other Nairoviruses to aid effective vaccine design","Viral haemorrhagic fevers (VHF) are characterised by very high temperatures and bleeding, and are associated with high levels of morbidity and mortality. A number of viruses can cause VHF, including Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV), which is the most widespread, tick-borne viral disease affecting humans. The disease is endemic in many regions, such as Africa, Asia, Eastern and Southern Europe, and Central Asia. CCHFV-associated deaths are estimated to be as high as 30% during outbreak settings. 

The study of VHFs that affect humans is limited by the need to work in high containment laboratories and by the relative absence of easily-accessible and appropriate models of disease. Nairobi sheep disease virus (NSDV) is an important veterinary-specific and naturally occurring VHF of sheep and goats. NSDV infection of small ruminants is associated with high mortality of up to 90% but is of low risk to humans. NSDV is very closely related to CCHFV, and investigation of NSDV will positively inform CCHFV work and vice versa, whilst simultaneously increasing our knowledge of VHFs and helping inform vaccine development. 

The immune response that protects post-exposure to CCHFV and NSDV remains unknown. However, there are no reports of patients being re-infected with CCHFV and disease outbreaks of NSDV only occur when naive animals are moved to an enzootic area; suggesting that prior exposure can result in protective immunity. Delineating the immune response following CCHFV/ NSDV infection is the main objective of this project. 

Detailed studies of the immune response in recovery post VHF will be achieved through the assessment of antibody functionality, antigenic profiling and B-cell cohort evaluation. The functionality, population cohorts and type of recall response for T-cell immune responses against CCHF and NSDV, in exposed humans and animals, will also be measured. This will help define the breadth and repertoire of immunity needed to develop protective immunity and in this manner identify the protein(s) of choice for vaccine inclusion. 

We will therefore assess the immune responses post exposure to nairoviuses (e.g. CCHFV and/ or NSDV) foreseeing that this immune profiling will identify antigenic targets to become vaccine components in elimination campaigns which will directly and positively impact the economy, health and welfare of endemic countries. This is the principle and direct aim of this research proposal.","2018-05-01","2022-03-31",1129722,"GDP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R019991/1"
"157","BB/R020116/1",2,"One Health and accelerating Vaccines for Ebola and Lassa (OVEL)","The One Health and accelerating Vaccines for Ebola and Lassa (OVEL) is a focused comparative One Health vaccine project based on the need to understand future threats of zoonotic virus spill-overs from their natural animal reservoirs to humans. This information is important to develop the most effective protective vaccines to prevent future human outbreaks. 
A disproportionally high number of emerging and re-emerging diseases are caused by RNA viruses and many are carried naturally by animals (Heeney, J Internal Med, 2006). Their genomes are notoriously variable due to the high mutation rate that occurs during replication. These accumulate over time and results in evolvolution of the viruses as they circulate in their natural animal reservoir populations. Thus, these variant viruses carried by animals are a risk to human health and may spill-over to people who share the same environment. If some viral variants arise and are able to adapt to use human cell receptors and if they are able to escape immune defences, they may become highly infectious and cause large disease outbreaks.
Vaccines are only as good as the immune targets (the viral protein (antigen) presented by vaccines) of the pathogen that they are designed for. If the antigen changes, vaccines fail to protect. In most cases current vaccine candidates against RNA viruses are from past human outbreaks with little or no information of future risks from viral variants carried in animal reservoirs, especially those with the potential for animal to human (zoonotic) transmission. 
We propose to establish an extended viral sequence database derived from animal reservoirs for two virus families which cause viral haemorrhagic diseases in geographically overlapping regions of West Africa. By gaining new molecular/genomic and antibody data from animal hosts, we will acquire an understanding of the infection dynamics and viral persistence in their natural reservoirs, while providing essential viral diversity data in reservoirs to discover new vaccine antigens and accelerate truly protective vaccine design.
We will acquire Lassa/Arenavirus sequence diversity data from a comprehensive survey of the natural rodent hosts (Mastomys natalensis and other rodent reservoir species) in Nigeria where documented Lassa outbreaks occur in states with cases caused by diverse isoaltes of Lassa fever virus. A second reservoir viral sequence database is likely to arise from a complementary study funded by the UK GCRF award to Prof J Wood based from sampled bat colonies in Ghana which Ebolavirus antibody and antigen positive animals have been found.
Equipped with this information on the sequence diversity of viruses in animal reservoirs which threaten to spill-over to humans, we will be able to design better vaccine antigens for more effective and broadly protective vaccines. We will achieve this using a new accelerated vaccine development platform using cutting edge technologies to achieve dramatic improvements in vaccine efficacy and the speed of vaccine development. 
We will use the new EVAC (Emerging viral Vaccine Antigen Construct) platform vaccine technology we previously developed with Innovate-UK funding. The EVAC platform, which significantly accelerates vaccine development, merges (i) sequences of outbreak pathogens and their reservoirs in West Africa, (ii) broadly anti-viral neutralising monoclonal antibodies derived from viral haemorrhagic fever survivors, (iii) computational modelling methodologies, (iv) synthetic gene technology, and (v) in vivo immune selection and vaccine efficacy readouts. The end products are novel vaccine antigens to trigger the broadest spectrum of protective immune responses using Digitally Designed, Immune Optimised and Selected (DIOS) vaccine antigens against re-emerging RNA viruses Lassa Fever and Ebola viruses.","2018-05-01","2023-03-31",1475845,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R020116/1"
"158","BB/R020116/1",2,"One Health and accelerating Vaccines for Ebola and Lassa (OVEL)","The One Health and accelerating Vaccines for Ebola and Lassa (OVEL) is a focused comparative One Health vaccine project based on the need to understand future threats of zoonotic virus spill-overs from their natural animal reservoirs to humans. This information is important to develop the most effective protective vaccines to prevent future human outbreaks. 
A disproportionally high number of emerging and re-emerging diseases are caused by RNA viruses and many are carried naturally by animals (Heeney, J Internal Med, 2006). Their genomes are notoriously variable due to the high mutation rate that occurs during replication. These accumulate over time and results in evolvolution of the viruses as they circulate in their natural animal reservoir populations. Thus, these variant viruses carried by animals are a risk to human health and may spill-over to people who share the same environment. If some viral variants arise and are able to adapt to use human cell receptors and if they are able to escape immune defences, they may become highly infectious and cause large disease outbreaks.
Vaccines are only as good as the immune targets (the viral protein (antigen) presented by vaccines) of the pathogen that they are designed for. If the antigen changes, vaccines fail to protect. In most cases current vaccine candidates against RNA viruses are from past human outbreaks with little or no information of future risks from viral variants carried in animal reservoirs, especially those with the potential for animal to human (zoonotic) transmission. 
We propose to establish an extended viral sequence database derived from animal reservoirs for two virus families which cause viral haemorrhagic diseases in geographically overlapping regions of West Africa. By gaining new molecular/genomic and antibody data from animal hosts, we will acquire an understanding of the infection dynamics and viral persistence in their natural reservoirs, while providing essential viral diversity data in reservoirs to discover new vaccine antigens and accelerate truly protective vaccine design.
We will acquire Lassa/Arenavirus sequence diversity data from a comprehensive survey of the natural rodent hosts (Mastomys natalensis and other rodent reservoir species) in Nigeria where documented Lassa outbreaks occur in states with cases caused by diverse isoaltes of Lassa fever virus. A second reservoir viral sequence database is likely to arise from a complementary study funded by the UK GCRF award to Prof J Wood based from sampled bat colonies in Ghana which Ebolavirus antibody and antigen positive animals have been found.
Equipped with this information on the sequence diversity of viruses in animal reservoirs which threaten to spill-over to humans, we will be able to design better vaccine antigens for more effective and broadly protective vaccines. We will achieve this using a new accelerated vaccine development platform using cutting edge technologies to achieve dramatic improvements in vaccine efficacy and the speed of vaccine development. 
We will use the new EVAC (Emerging viral Vaccine Antigen Construct) platform vaccine technology we previously developed with Innovate-UK funding. The EVAC platform, which significantly accelerates vaccine development, merges (i) sequences of outbreak pathogens and their reservoirs in West Africa, (ii) broadly anti-viral neutralising monoclonal antibodies derived from viral haemorrhagic fever survivors, (iii) computational modelling methodologies, (iv) synthetic gene technology, and (v) in vivo immune selection and vaccine efficacy readouts. The end products are novel vaccine antigens to trigger the broadest spectrum of protective immune responses using Digitally Designed, Immune Optimised and Selected (DIOS) vaccine antigens against re-emerging RNA viruses Lassa Fever and Ebola viruses.","2018-05-01","2021-03-31",1475845,"GDP","BBSRC","","Closed","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/R020116/1"
"159","BB/T004436/1",2,"Environmental and Economic Impacts of Improved Antibiotics Stewardship in Poultry Systems","To address AMR, there is consensus on the need to reduce antimicrobial use (AMU) in food animal production. Intensive poultry production is characterised by high AMU and associated environmental risks to human health through direct and indirect (environmental) transmission - e.g. from livestock waste. As in other LMIC countries there are emerging challenges in designing regulatory structures and priorities based on robust evidence of effectiveness and cost of different voluntary and mandatory interventions across different parts of the supply chain. This proposal offers five linked interdisciplinary work packages exploring different elements related to drivers of AMU, pathways to resistance, and economic costs of alternative mitigation measures and their effectiveness in terms of reducing AMR risks. The project adopts novel perspectives in terms of the development of antimicrobial stewardship across all industry actors (e.g. breeders, feeding, pharmaceutical, veterinarians, farmers, retailers). We also use a theoretical framework (a marginal abatement cost curve) to represent relative cost-effectiveness of mitigation measures. Further project elements will share experience on research and training methods and science-policy translation between countries. 
Activities: 
WP1 Supply/value chain characterisation: To define stewardship in terms of supply chain relationships and to model value chains in economic terms, development of farm scale economic models to test costs of interventions. Identification of different mitigation measures to reduce AMU, modelling propensity to adopt alternative AMU practices. 
WP2 AMR prevalence of AMR in target farms/systems: In selected groups of farms to identify /confirm AMR hotspots prevalence and pathways in farms &amp; supply chains using bacteriological and metagenomic approaches to evaluate the consequences and relationship between AMR and different productive performances, considering resource consumption and residue generation, with the aim to model and characterise each group regarding its environmental impact (GHG emissions, pollution risk to in soil and water, and potential consequences). 
WP3 Characterising AMU reduction interventions: Evaluating the effectiveness of alternative mitigation measures identified in WP1. 
WP4 Cost-benefit analysis and scenarios: Development of a marginal abatement cost curve showing relative cost-effectiveness of alternative interventions targeting AMU. 
WP5 Decision support for industry policy, scenarios &amp; integration: Developing industry support tool and supply chain guidance on AM stewardship plan across poultry industry stakeholders for promotion of adoption of CE measures. Evaluating potential regulatory interventions targeting AMU. 
The project seeks to understand and co-design cost-effective interventions across all supply chain actors that have a role on the stewardship of AMs, and can potentially influence on-farm behaviours, directly or indirectly. There is a need to understand how the action of the different actors might be combined to reduce AM use in production. The project will develop economic and behavioural methodologies as a basis for informing Argentinian field studies that seek to understand AMU drivers. It will test various responses (behavioural interventions), and evaluate the pathways to impacts; i.e. how these interventions and reduced use might actually reduce AMR, and what the broader economic costs and benefits of such scenarios might be. Much of the project will involve raising awareness of the role of economics among scientists, industry, regulators, and other policy makers, with a series of research, and policy meetings and joint events in both countries. It will also develop a consistent framework for representing the costs and benefits of measures to modify antimicrobial use in agriculture. This in turn will offer lessons for the development of LMIC strategies for managing antimicrobial use in poultry production.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",647418,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T004436/1"
"160","BB/T004436/1",2,"Environmental and Economic Impacts of Improved Antibiotics Stewardship in Poultry Systems","Abstract: We will use a One Health approach to understand and quantify the environmental and economic impacts (costs and benefits) of modified antimicrobial use and to co-design system interventions that are feasible, acceptable and cost-effective for producers. We take a whole supply/value chain perspective, incorporating the role of all actors from breeding to retail, to define these interventions. Our interdisciplinary research will inform rational use and the development of decision support tools to inform production (e.g. on farm). We will develop the notion of antimicrobial stewardship as an industry (voluntary) approach, but we also consider other mandatory and market based policy scenarios for measure compliance. Our methodologies will consider industry-wide effects and will be appropriate for use in other LMIC contexts for data collection and prioritisation of poultry sector antimicrobial use (AMU) interventions. 
 Objectives: 
 1. To determine the drivers for antimicrobial use (AMU) using participatory appraisal and economic and ethnographic assessment at key stages along the poultry food system: breeders, farmers, feed suppliers, animal health workers, retailers and consumers 
 2. To map the socio-economic context and identify hotspots within the poultry meat food system, by quantifying AMU and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) at key points of the system
 3. To undertake in vivo and in vitro studies to establish AMR prevalence and rational AMU protocols (including potential alternatives) that minimize AMR selection and dispersion.
 4. To determine the productive/economic and environmental costs and benefits of AMU interventions (including withdrawal and alternatives) and impact on the poultry industry value chain. To develop a Marginal abatement cost curve to illustrate the relative cost-effectiveness of interventions to modify AMU and control AMR.
 5. To use this evidence to design and assess a decision-making tool to help the poultry industry from Argentina (and other LMICs) evaluate AMU/AMR interventions and design stewardship initiatives covering broiler meat food industry actors. To map the wider economic and social trajectory of the Argentinian and LMIC poultry industries and likely AMU futures. 
 These objectives will be met in five interconnected work packages. Objective 1 will be led by SRUC with input from UoE, IIByT, ICTA, SENASA and INTA. It will identify economic, behavioural and environmental external drivers of AMU/AMR; Objective 2 led by INTA will investigate biological drivers of AMU and AMR in the broiler meat system in its entirety from breeding to retail. Both objectives will help identify potential interventions and activities to promote rational/reduced AMU. Objective 2 and 3 involve Argentinian institutes (INTA, ANLIS, SENASA, IBIMOL, ICTA and IIByT, as well as the commercial partners Soychú and INDACOR) contributing to metadata and sample collection and determining the presence of AMR genes and associated bacteria in the context of the broiler meat chain. We will quantify the abundance and diversity of AMR along this chain, supported by in vivo and in vitro studies. Samples will be collected and microbiological and metagenomic data will be analysed in collaboration with University of Edinburgh, as part of postdoctoral training/exchanges. Objective 3 will determine how AMU interventions drive AMR, quantifying shifts in AMR genes and reservoir bacteria. Experimental trials will be planned around previous work by partners and results from O1/O2. Objective 4 will be led by UoE/INTA and will determine the cost -benefit relationship and economic impacts of AMU interventions, based on the expected results from O1, 2 and 3. O4 allows pressure points for AMU and AMR to be identified and visualised in economic terms, which in turn aids the co-design of interventions and stewardship planning with stakeholders for Objective 5. O5 will be a joint workpackage (INTA/SENASA and UoE) to develop decision support for industry and policy and will be led by UoE and INTA/SENASA.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",687418,"GDP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T004436/1"
"161","BB/T004452/1",2,"Developing a conceptual framework to improve understanding of AMR in livestock systems: translating research into policy and practice","It is estimated that by 2050 AMR infections will be the leading cause of death globally with a total economic cost of $100 trillion, with the overwhelming burden placed on LMICs (O'Neill report, 2016). Antimicrobial usage (AMU) in livestock has been shown to be an important driver of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in animals and is associated with resistance in the clinical setting, with a recent review attributing 24% of AMR in humans to AMU in animals. Impacts on the wider environment are also well documented as is the potential for human exposure and transmission; although the latter are poorly quantified for livestock rearing scenarios. Agriculture's share of global antibiotic consumption is high and rising, as the demand for animal protein increases, especially in low and middle-income countries. Without considering the important role that the farmed and natural environment plays in contributing to the overall burden of AMR infection, and taking steps to reduce environmental AMR, efforts in other sectors may not prevent the post-antibiotic era that threatens modern medicine. We will consider the issue of AMR using a DPSEEA framework (Drivers-Pressure-State- Exposure-Effect-Action). This framework was designed to allow complex problems to be broken down into logical components, it also allows Actions and critical control points to be identified which lends itself to the application of control theory modelling approaches. We will produce a &quot;blueprint&quot; for an integrated surveillance, analysis, interpretation, modelling and policy translation approach that can be utilised for any livestock system in any LMIC to facilitate decision making, implementation of incentives and informing new policy around interventions to reduce AMU, AMR and risk to human health. This will reduce the economic and societal burden of AMR whilst ensuring associated economic costs of interventions are considered. 

Rather than trying to generate as much surveillance data, in as many livestock rearing systems, under as many management strategies as possible, we have instead taken an interdisciplinary approach to studying the impacts of feedlot production on antimicrobial usage and AMR in beef cattle as well as feedlot impacted environments. The rationale being that we can investigate this single livestock system, as an exemplar, in detail, including the impacts of cattle breeding and rearing systems combined with specific interventions including reduction of use of antibiotics as growth promoters, cessation of metaphylaxis at the point of recruitment to the feedlot and vaccination as an additional intervention. The use of dairy sourced calves as an additional risk factor due to increased antimicrobial usage (AMU) on dairy farms will also be investigated. Feedlot beef production is increasingly used instead of grassland production in much of Latin America and other parts of the world including LMICs in Latin America and beyond. It is ironic that as international efforts to tackle AMR increase (eg. the FAO, OIE and WHO Memorandum of Understanding, signed on the 30 May 2018) one of the remaining largely extensive, low AMU livestock systems is moving towards intensive, high AMU production systems. The impacts of this will be felt most keenly in LMICs where demand is increasingly most rapidly for affordable animal protein.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",987216,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T004452/1"
"162","BB/T004452/1",2,"Developing a conceptual framework to improve understanding of AMR in livestock systems: translating research into policy and practice","The project aims to generate new ways of considering AMR in farmed and natural environments, focusing on a Driving Force–Pressure–State–Exposure–Effect–Action (DPSEEA) framework to explore the linkages between selection for and dissemination of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and the processes that drive this phenomenon. We will focus on feedlot beef production systems, as an exemplar, which are increasingly being used in Argentina and low and middle income countries (LMICs) in Latin America to replace less intensive, grass fed, low antimicrobial usage (AMU) systems. Feedlot systems often rely on antibiotic metaphylaxis to combat health issues caused by poor sanitary conditions and stress to the animals as well as the use of antimicrobials as growth promoters. With thousands of animals kept within small areas large amounts of manure are generated which can impact surrounding soil and water resources with the potential for wider dissemination and risk of human exposure and environmental transmission of AMR pathogens. Cattle faeces can also be disseminated by air, under dry conditions dust (faeces) problems are common. The research consortium is made up of AMR experts from Argentina and the UK, from government institutions and universities and includes clinical, veterinary and environmental microbiologists, specialists in bioinformatics and genomics, agricultural economics, evidence synthesis, mathematical modelling and AMR policy. This interdisciplinary team will enable a holistic approach to the problem, integrating understanding of 1) economic and human behaviours that drive AMU and livestock management practice, 2) evolutionary and ecological processes that lead to increased AMR in animal faeces and environmental matrices such as soil and water 3) mechanistic insights into resistance mechanisms and evolution of resistance within impacted environments and 4) human exposure risk associated with environmental and food borne human exposure. We will take a systematic approach to establish what is already known about AMU and AMR in feedlot systems and in cattle farming associated environments using evidence mapping methodologies. This data will be used to populate the conceptual framework, highlighting where knowledge gaps exist, and in development of an underpinning mathematical model using critical control, info-gap and adaptive management theories. These approaches are used where there are uncertainties in data but are still able to facilitate decision making and management strategies in the face of uncertainty and complexity. Data gaps will be met by outputs from this project, particularly in the driving forces – pressure - state part of the framework. The consortium also includes an expert in AMR policy, and we will fully integrate translation of outputs and knowledge collated within the project to policy outputs, with engagement with policy makers included within a policy work package.
 Objectives 
 1). Undertake an evidence mapping exercise to establish what relevant data exists in the peer-reviewed and grey literature. 
 2). Undertake intervention studies in feedlot farms to test the impact of metaphylaxis during cattle entry to the farm, growth promoter usage and vaccination on AMR in faeces. 
 3). Compare high and low AMU feed-lot systems in terms of AMR endpoints in cattle. 
 4). Characterise AMR in environmental matrices on farms and surrounding areas including in soil and water. 
 5). Undertake comparative genomic and metagenomic analyses of resistant isolates and total microbial communities. 
 6). Generate Marginal Abatement Cost Curves (MACC) for key interventions to assess cost – benefits of interventions to reduce AMU and AMR. 
 7). Generate policy outputs, co-designing these through engagement with scientists and policy makers.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",1027191,"GDP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T004452/1"
"163","BB/T004592/1",2,"FARMS-SAFE: Future-proofing Antibacterial resistance Risk Management Surveillance and Stewardship in the Argentinian Farming Environment","Antibacterial drug resistance (ABR) is a global threat to health and development and a problem that is getting steadily
worse. Within Latin America, Argentina has been tracking levels of ABR in human infections since 1986. Argentina was
also the first country in the region to develop a national strategy for the control of ABR. This national Strategy takes a
starting assumption that the use of antibacterial drugs (ABs) in livestock agriculture is in part responsible for the threat
of ABR in humans. The use of ABs on farms can potentially result in ABR human infections via 3 main pathways: (1)
ABR bacteria selected in the farm environment infect humans, or at least the mobile ABR genes carried within them
are transmitted to bacteria that infect humans; (2) Agricultural AB residues in food are ingested by humans, selecting
for ABR in human bacteria; (3) Agricultural ABs contaminate the non-farm environment, selecting ABR in bacteria
there, which then infect humans. In Argentina, data are extremely limited for the amount of ABR bacteria on farms
and in the near-farm environment. Furthermore, whilst AB residues are monitored in foodstuffs entering the formal
market, there is a significant informal market, and AB levels in the environment are not routinely measured. One
potential response to the rising threat of ABR is regulation, and both international organizations - led by the WHO -
and individual countries have sought to formulate, for example, new regulatory frameworks to address the and use of
ABs in farming, as well as the management of farm waste. As the O'Neill report recognises, however, developing
countries &quot;...will need extra support and additional time to train veterinarians, develop regulations, build surveillance
capacity and improve farming practices&quot;. The premise of this project - FARMS-SAFE - is that as well as providing better
surveillance information for ABR and AB usage, extra support for Argentina and other Latin American countries should
encompass a risk-based approach to the design of regulation as well as to the strengthening of enforcement capacities;
their weakness is another source of risk.

FARMS-SAFE will address this issue by reference to four key risk areas via an UK/Argentinian research consortium:

1. Animal disease as a driver of ABR risk - We will identify why farmers use ABs in the context of animal disease.

2. Animal husbandry practice as a driver of ABR risk - We will identify what farm management practices are being
employed that influence the usage of ABs and will perform surveillance of the usage of ABs on farms in Argentina.

3. Farm waste management as a driver of ABR risk. We will perform surveillance of ABR bacteria with clear
potential to affect human health on farms in the near farm environment and will measure the levels of ABs and 
other chemicals in the near-farm environment. We will correlate ABR with AB usage and will identify management risk
factors for ABR and AB contamination in the environment.

4. Regulatory capacity as a driver of ABR risk. We will identify the key individuals and organisations involved in
regulation of ABR and work with them to develop tools that can be used to regulate in a way that is informed by the
risks that drive ABR.

This work will lead to significant new understanding of the prevalence and causes of ABR in Argentinian farming
systems, how this influences the near-farm environment (and so potentially influences human health) and will inform
policy making within Argentina, Latin America and the wider world. We will also create a surveillance structure and
trained researchers who can continue to monitor ABR, AB usage and environmental contamination with ABs and ABR
into the future, and who can measure success and failure of strategies employed to reduce this risk.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",989327,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T004592/1"
"164","BB/T004592/1",2,"FARMS-SAFE: Future-proofing Antibacterial resistance Risk Management Surveillance and Stewardship in the Argentinian Farming Environment","To achieve the call’s overall aim of delivering research that can be used to reduce the drivers and risk of ABR in the environment from agricultural sources in Argentina and the surrounding region, our interdisciplinary consortium has the following research objectives (ROs): 
 1. Understand how farmers manage animal health and the cultural, economic, and regulatory factors influencing their use of ABs and the risk of ABR
 2. Provide the first systematic measurements of which ABs and other veterinary medicines are being used by livestock producers in Argentina, and in what quantities and ways by different sectors and enterprise types
 3. Quantify the levels and specific types of ABR bacteria in livestock, the on-farm and near-farm environment and how these vary by sector, enterprise type and disease management practice
 4. Correlate ABU with ABR and identify management practices that influence the prevalence of ABR in animals and on farms along with the presence of ABs and ABR in the near-farm environment
 5. Support development of a risk-based approach to targeting ABR surveillance and regulation 
 In terms of addressing the call’s priority areas, we will create a framework for surveillance and reporting on ABU and ABR and support options for animal husbandry and welfare to support AB stewardship to minimise the environmental impacts of ABR. In so doing, we have considered the implications of land use and socio-economic factors on the sustainability and efficacy of proposed strategies to reduce the impact of agriculture on the emergence and spread of ABR. We will also satisfy specific evidence gaps identified during the funders’ workshop in Buenos Aires, particularly regarding accurate and reliable data about ABU on farms including dosage, timing and life cycle as well as farmer engagement with ABU good practice guidance, patterns of ABR in livestock farms and the environmental impact of specific farming practices as well as improving levels of compliance with regulations. 
 To deliver this project cost effectively but with maximum academic and translational impact, we will focus on 4 pathogens highlighted in the Argentinian Strategy for Control of AMR in order to reduce AMR in the context of farm/environment/human transmission: E. coli, Enterococcus, Salmonella and Campylobacter. All samples we collect, however, will be stored for future use, so that we or other researchers can retrospectively study other pathogens, perform metagenomic sequencing or measure ABR gene abundance if funds become available in the future. We will also focus our research by animal species, including poultry and pigs (which are considered to have highest ABU) as well as dairy cattle (for which almost no information is available in Argentina). 
 We will achieve our objectives via five interlocking workstreams (WSs):
 WS1 will use a national survey to understand farmers’ approaches to animal health, waste management practices and awareness of ABR. 
 WS2 will use data from WS1 to focus on more data collection in the form of in-depth semi-structured interviews and ethnography to get a detailed understanding of farming cultures and animal husbandry as drivers of AB usage and ABR. 
 WS3 will undertake surveillance of AB usage on farms and link with WS2 to identify risk factors for AB usage. WS4 will undertake surveillance of ABR bacteria and AB contamination on farms and in the near-farm environment, and will assess correlations between AB usage and ABR and identify risk factors for these measured parameters. 
 WS5 will map regulatory actors for AB usage and ABR, and develop a model to summarise ABR risks defined in other WSs. We will then use stakeholder workshops to identify the best way to present these risks to regulatory actors.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",1029091,"GDP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T004592/1"
"165","BB/T004681/1",2,"AMR in Argentine Broiler Poultry Systems: Risks and Mitigation","Intensive poultry production is characterised by high antimicrobial use (AMU) and associated environmental and human risks. This proposal offers five linked interdisciplinary work packages that aim to establish a strategic research program in antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in broiler farms in Argentina. It will integrate ex situ experiments with field trials on commercial broiler farms, quantifying AMR associated with broiler production and the role of litter in AMR-related risks to birds, humans and the environment. The key aim of the proposal is to develop a framework to understand AMR transference to the environment and evaluate the scientific evidence to inform interventions for suitable litter management practices in commercial broiler farms in Argentina, and more widely in LMICs. This framework will be based on empirical data collected from commercial broiler farms in Argentina and from laboratory-scale experiments (UK and Argentina) and developed via a quantitative model for spread and amelioration of AMR and the related impact on poultry productivity and welfare. The focus of the project will be the presence and persistence of AMR in poultry litters and how to mitigate spread to the environment. For this purpose, field trials will be performed in commercial Argentinian broiler farms and laboratory-scale experimental work in Argentina and UK. Data analysis will be carried out in both countries. A series of integrated work packages (WPs) will answer the four Research Questions with two additional work packages designed to address the two key objectives. 
WP1: On-farm characterization of AMR status, litter management and production performance to determine how different AMU protocols and litter management strategies affect persistence of AMR determinants and bird performance; setting baseline prevalence and diversity of AMR determinants in commercial farms. 
WP2: Optimising litter sanitising processes. To inform best practice by conducting composting trials in UK and Argentina under controlled conditions to simulate temperature and humidity of poultry sheds. Data obtained from field (WP1) and laboratory testing will feed into the model (WP4) and the best practice framework (WP5). Litter will be obtained from farms with different AMU strategies as described in WP1. 
WP3: Phenotypic and molecular characterization of AMR of indicator bacteria and resistance genes. This work-package will determine environmental indicators to measure AMR in different scenarios with/without antimicrobials in selected farms. It will also search for a reference genome for novel strains-linkage of AMR. 
WP4: Modelling AMR through the litter cycles, WP4 will develop a quantitative model for spread and amelioration of AMR in chicken litter, taking into account the production cycle and subsequent composting. Results from WP1 (field data) and WP2 (experimental data) will contribute to determine pathways from AMU to the litter.
WP5: Systems approach to understanding AMR dynamics with broiler productive performance/health and welfare. Here, data collected and analytical outputs from work packages 1-4 will be integrated into a systems model to identify key predictors for the emergence and transmission of AMR bacteria within the Argentine broiler agricultural system. 
The project aims to understand how AMR persists in broiler farms through different productive cycles and spreads to the environment. Additionally, we propose to co-design cost-effective interventions to reduce the impact of AMR from poultry farms by promoting a rationale for AMU and waste management which will potentially influence on-farm behaviour. The project will offer data to develop knowledge-based policies and waste management/biosecurity recommendations which can be transferred to the development of LMIC strategies for managing AMU/AMR in poultry production.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",979404,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T004681/1"
"166","BB/T004681/1",2,"Role of poultry litter in antimicrobial resistance (AMR): associated risks and potential mitigation strategies","This project intends to use a ""One Health"" approach to understand and quantify the environmental impact of antimicrobial resistance in animal production and the ways of dissemination to the environment and humans. We take a holistic perspective of the production chain, incorporating the role of each of the actors involved, from reproduction to retail, to characterize the attitude towards the use of antimicrobials and identify factors that influence the selection and transmission of antimicrobial resistance. 
 The presence of microorganisms resistant to antimicrobials in different food animals represents a high risk to public health, since these microorganisms can act as agents of zoonotic diseases or function as a reservoir of resistance genes for human and animal pathogens. Although it is understood that the use of antimicrobials in animal production is related to the presence of resistant bacteria in humans, the transfer pathways of this resistance are not completely defined. The waste generated by animal production, such as the bed of broiler chickens, represents a potential reservoir of resistance not only within the farm but also towards the environment and humans. Considering that the preserved bed is reused up to 5 production cycles, and then it is used as a fertilizer, it represents a potential source of AMR. Before being used as a fertilizer, the beds are treated in situ to reduce the burden of pathogens. It is likely that the composting process reduces antibiotic residues inside the bed, but it is necessary to determine the dynamics of bacterial populations during that process and the time needed to reduce the burden of antimicrobial residues, resistance genes and resistance genes carrier bacteria. 
 The main objective of this work is to allow an efficient control of the resistance in an economically viable way that can be applied to Argentina and to low- and middle-income countries. In order to comply with the aforementioned objective, it is proposed to use productive indicators (weight gain, conversion, production efficiency), microbiological and genomic targets, along with parameters of animal welfare (mortality, morbidity, foot quality) and environmental quality (ammonia, powder). Our interdisciplinary research will inform the rational use and development of decision support tools to inform producers of different levels of production and promote the rational use of antimicrobials and at the same time design interventions (reduction / withdrawal of antimicrobials, uses of alternatives) of systems that are feasible, acceptable and profitable for producers. 
 The key aim of the proposal is to develop a framework for best practice for commercial broiler farms in Argentina and other LMICs. This framework will be based on empirical data collected from commercial broiler farms in Argentina and from laboratory-scale experiments (UK and Argentina) and developed via a quantitative model for spread and amelioration of AMR. We aim to answer the following questions: RQ1: What are the drivers of AMR within broiler sheds? 
 RQ2: To what extent can we reduce resistance profiles through changes in litter removal rates and composting regimes in broiler poultry litter? 
 RQ3: How well do current welfare and litter management practices minimise the AMR risk? 
 RQ4: Are other chemicals used on the farm that may drive AMR (e.g. quaternary ammonium compounds, other antimicrobials, heavy metals, biocides)? 
 RQ5: Do insects that inhabit the litter and/or transient visitors increase the prevalence of AMR in the sheds? 
 RQ6: Can we add feed additives (i.e. phytochemicals) to reduce fitness of AMR bacteria or their AMR genes in the birds and the litter? Would litter re-use decrease AMR if we add additives that remain active in the faeces? 
 In order to answer the above mentioned questions we have proposed the following objectives: Objective 1: To develop a quantitative model to predict AMR through the litter cycles taking into account the production cycle (differences in environment/husbandry/animal density) and subsequent composting. 
 Objective 2: To develop a framework for best practice for commercial broiler farms in Argentina and other LMICs. This will be predicated on the outputs relating to each RQ and to objective 1.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",1019404,"GDP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T004681/1"
"167","BB/T00472X/1",2,"Mapping the patterns and drivers of antibiotic use and environmental resistance in the Argentine beef industry.","This project will build upon preliminary work conducted by Argentine and UK partners which has already identified the presence of AMR in beef feedlots and generated the first large-scale dataset of beef farm antibiotic usage data (334 farms) anywhere in the world. It will also build upon a small existing grant of &pound;7,700 from UK ODA seed fund to help UoL academics develop a 'UK-Argentine Beef Antibiotic Research Network' which will be used to collect and analysis samples to optimize qPCR gene selection for environmental AMR quantification in beef farms, planned for Jan-June 2019. This preliminary work provides a very robust starting point for this project.

The project will use veterinary and epidemiology expertise and experience in quantifying antibiotic usage and agri-health economics expertise in mapping food value chains to build a theoretical antibiotic surveillance framework. This framework will be assessed against the available sources of information in other LMIC's to test its transferability especially in less well developed livestock systems including Kenya and Ethiopia, through existing projects which the UK the collaborators are engaged in (HORN project). 
The system would integrate all the available information on antibiotic prescribing and antibiotic usage along with the farm management practices across the whole range of beef farming systems in Argentina. We will then categorize antibiotic use at farm level recruiting between 200 - 1000 farms from an existing representative network of 4500 farms (organized via SENASA) into different management system types (eg. breeding, growing, feedlot finishing) and correlate the management practices used in these farms with their patterns of antibiotic usage by using the surveillance framework. The environmental AMR population load and diversity will be assessed in a stratified random sub-sample of (n = 50) of the farms according to management system type and AMU level &amp; usage practices. Multi-level modelling, cluster and principal component analysis will be used to quantify the agreement between the classification of farms based upon the AMU surveillance framework and the microbiological results to validate the efficacy of this means of risk assessment.

Deeper molecular analysis will be conducted on samples from farms with evidence of the most significant AMR diversity and load relating to High Priority Critically important antibiotics. This will include whole genome metagenomics and culture based antibiotic phenotype sensitivity to understand the population structure of the resistance profile of the most significant AMR environments. 
This phase of the project will allow us to use risk factor analysis to identify critical control points in the mode of antibiotic use in beef farms. This will be achieved by linking the molecular epidemiology data to detailed quantitative and qualitative interviews with farmers to understand the drivers of antibiotic use.

The final phase of the project will co-develop practical AMR reduction interventions and policy advice of regulatory authorities. All the interventions recommended will be based up the risk factor analysis and their economic impact tested by cost - effectiveness analysis to identify in a clear a reproducible manner the most appropriate control measures for each farm management system. The qualitative interviews conducted with each farmer in the study will inform decision making on barriers to adoption of individual measures and feed into the co-development of policy advice to the beef industry. The collaboration provides the exciting opportunity to compare and contrast approaches in the UK and Argentina to maximizing farmer adoption of new practices and advice. 

The project would employ two post-doctoral researchers (PDRAs) directly through the UoL. Whilst these two PDRA's will be employed by UoL they will be supervised jointly by UK and Argentine partner senior academics.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",864388,"GBP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T00472X/1"
"168","BB/T00472X/1",2,"Mapping the patterns and drivers of antibiotic use and environmental resistance in the Argentine beef industry.","The project will develop evidence based interventions to reduce the antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in the environment originating from beef cattle production systems. Currently the contribution of the beef industry to environmental AMR has been very poorly characterized in spite of the fact that the beef farming is the most significant and widespread livestock sector in Argentina. Increasing beef exports by 160% over the next decade is a key target for economic development (www.OECD.org) but this must be achieved without resorting to unsustainable use of antibiotics to support productivity. There is increasing global scrutiny on antibiotic usage in livestock due to its local impact on AMR in the environment and the wider potential impact on the end consumer. National and international antibiotic surveillance of antibiotic use are developing to safeguard consumers in key export markets such as Europe, Japan and China. It is therefore essential that the Argentine beef industry develops robust farm level benchmarking and best practice guidelines for antibiotic usage to evidence the low risk of beef production and the quality of the final product.
 This project will directly contribute to the development of policy in this area through the following objectives:
 1) Identify and describe all data sources relating to veterinary antibiotic prescribing, antibiotic sales and antibiotic usage in Argentinian beef production. This will cover all levels of the value chain from pharmaceutical manufacturer, distributor/supplier, veterinary practice, farm, processor, exporter and retailer. 
 2) Categorise beef farming systems by farm management and animal husbandry practices and quantify antibiotic usage for each farm within each category using all the available data. This information will be collected alongside AMU data to facilitate risk factor analysis in Obj3 and to provide data for economic analysis in Obj4
 3) Understand the relationship of bacterial AMR diversity, and community structure in the beef farming environment with antibiotic usage patterns in the farms. This will be achieved through a stratified sampling approach and a combination of molecular microbiology approaches undertaken by ARG and UK partners.
 4) Co-develop policy and intervention strategies to reduce AMR selection. This will be based on findings from Obj3. The interventions will be subjected to an economic analysis to assess their cost benefit throughout the value chain.
 The project will integrate expertise in multiple academic disciplines from both the UK and Argentina along with direct input from clinical veterinarians from UK and Argentina, antibiotic regulatory authorities (SENASA) and commercial beef producers (Salentine Argentina). This will enable the project to develop truly transdisciplinary research with direct, tangible benefits to Argentina and wider applications to cattle production in LMIC’s globally. Throughout the development of this project proposal emphasis has been placed upon making the outcomes of the project transferable to other LMIC’s.","2019-08-01","2023-05-31",904388,"GDP","BBSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=BB/T00472X/1"
"169","EP/R013756/1",2,"The Future Vaccine Manufacturing Research Hub (Vax-Hub)","Vaccines are the most successful public health initiative of the 20th century. They save millions of lives annually, add billions to the global economy and extended life expectancy by an average of 30 years. Even so, the UN estimates that globally 6 million children each year die before their 5th birthday. While vaccines do exist to prevent these deaths, it is limitations in manufacturing capacity, technology, costs and logistics that prevent us for reaching the most vulnerable. The UK is a world leader in vaccine research and has played a significant leadership role in several public health emergencies, most notably the Swine Flu pandemic in 2009 and the recent Ebola outbreak in West Africa. While major investment has been made into early vaccine discovery - this has not been matched in the manufacturing sciences or capacity. Consequently, leading UK scientists are forced to turn overseas to commercialise their products.

Therefore, this investment into The Future Vaccine Manufacturing Hub will enable our vision to make the UK the global centre for vaccine discovery, development and manufacture. We will create a vaccine manufacturing hub that brings together a world-class multidisciplinary team with decades of cumulative experience in all aspects of vaccine design and manufacturing research. This Hub will bring academia, industry and policy makers together to propose radical change in vaccine development and manufacturing technologies, such that the outputs are suitable for Low and Middle Income Countries.
The vaccine manufacturing challenges faced by the industry are to (i) decrease time to market, (ii) guarantee long lasting supply - especially of older, legacy vaccine, (iii) reduce the risk of failure in moving between different vaccine types, scales of manufacture and locations, (iv) mitigating costs and (v) responding to threats and future epidemics or pandemics. This work is further complicated as there is no generic vaccine type or manufacturing approach suitable for all diseases and scenarios. Therefore this manufacturing Hub will research generic tools and technologies that are widely applicable to a range of existing and future vaccines.
The work will focus on two main research themes (A) Tools and Technologies to de-risk scale-up and enable rapid response, and (B) Economic and Operational Tools for uninterrupted, low cost supply of vaccines. The first research theme seeks to create devices that can predict if a vaccine can be scaled-up for commercial manufacture before committing resources for development. It will include funds to study highly efficient purification systems, to drive costs down and use genetic tools to increase vaccine titres. Work in novel thermo-stable formulations will minimise vaccine wastage and ensure that vaccines survive the distribution chain. The second research theme will aim to demystify the economics of vaccine development and distribution and allow the identification of critical cost bottlenecks to drive research priorities. It will also assess the impact of the advances made in the first research theme to ensure that the final cost of the vaccine is suitable for the developing world. 
 
The Hub will be a boon for the UK, as this research into generic tools and technologies will be applicable for medical products intended for the UK and ensure that prices remain accessible for the NHS. It will establish the UK as the international centre for end-to-end vaccine research and manufacture. Additionally, vaccines should be considered a national security priority, as diseases do not respect international boundaries, thus this work into capacity building and rapid response is a significant advantage. 

The impact of this Hub will be felt internationally, as the UK reaffirms its leadership in Global Health and works to ensure that the outputs of this Hub reach the most vulnerable, especially children.","2018-04-01","2021-09-30",6968179,"GBP","EPSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=EP/R013756/1"
"170","EP/R013756/1",2,"The Future Vaccine Manufacturing Research Hub (Vax-Hub)","Vaccines are the most successful public health initiative of the 20th century. They save millions of lives annually, add billions to the global economy and extended life expectancy by an average of 30 years. Even so, the UN estimates that globally 6 million children each year die before their 5th birthday. While vaccines do exist to prevent these deaths, it is limitations in manufacturing capacity, technology, costs and logistics that prevent us for reaching the most vulnerable. The UK is a world leader in vaccine research and has played a significant leadership role in several public health emergencies, most notably the Swine Flu pandemic in 2009 and the recent Ebola outbreak in West Africa. While major investment has been made into early vaccine discovery - this has not been matched in the manufacturing sciences or capacity. Consequently, leading UK scientists are forced to turn overseas to commercialise their products.

Therefore, this investment into The Future Vaccine Manufacturing Hub will enable our vision to make the UK the global centre for vaccine discovery, development and manufacture. We will create a vaccine manufacturing hub that brings together a world-class multidisciplinary team with decades of cumulative experience in all aspects of vaccine design and manufacturing research. This Hub will bring academia, industry and policy makers together to propose radical change in vaccine development and manufacturing technologies, such that the outputs are suitable for Low and Middle Income Countries.
The vaccine manufacturing challenges faced by the industry are to (i) decrease time to market, (ii) guarantee long lasting supply - especially of older, legacy vaccine, (iii) reduce the risk of failure in moving between different vaccine types, scales of manufacture and locations, (iv) mitigating costs and (v) responding to threats and future epidemics or pandemics. This work is further complicated as there is no generic vaccine type or manufacturing approach suitable for all diseases and scenarios. Therefore this manufacturing Hub will research generic tools and technologies that are widely applicable to a range of existing and future vaccines.
The work will focus on two main research themes (A) Tools and Technologies to de-risk scale-up and enable rapid response, and (B) Economic and Operational Tools for uninterrupted, low cost supply of vaccines. The first research theme seeks to create devices that can predict if a vaccine can be scaled-up for commercial manufacture before committing resources for development. It will include funds to study highly efficient purification systems, to drive costs down and use genetic tools to increase vaccine titres. Work in novel thermo-stable formulations will minimise vaccine wastage and ensure that vaccines survive the distribution chain. The second research theme will aim to demystify the economics of vaccine development and distribution and allow the identification of critical cost bottlenecks to drive research priorities. It will also assess the impact of the advances made in the first research theme to ensure that the final cost of the vaccine is suitable for the developing world. 
 
The Hub will be a boon for the UK, as this research into generic tools and technologies will be applicable for medical products intended for the UK and ensure that prices remain accessible for the NHS. It will establish the UK as the international centre for end-to-end vaccine research and manufacture. Additionally, vaccines should be considered a national security priority, as diseases do not respect international boundaries, thus this work into capacity building and rapid response is a significant advantage. 

The impact of this Hub will be felt internationally, as the UK reaffirms its leadership in Global Health and works to ensure that the outputs of this Hub reach the most vulnerable, especially children.","2018-04-01","2021-09-30",6968180,"GDP","EPSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=EP/R013756/1"
"171","EP/R013764/1",2,"Future Vaccine Manufacturing Hub: Advancing the manufacture and deployment of cost effective vaccines","Vaccine manufacturing systems have undergone evolutionary optimisation over the last 60 years, with occasional disruptions due to new technology (e.g. mammalian cell cultures replacing egg-based systems for seasonal influenza vaccine manufacture). Global vaccination programmes have been a great success but the production and distribution systems from vaccines still suffer from costs associated with producing and purifying vaccines and the need to store them between 2 and 8 degrees C. This can be a challenge in the rural parts of low and middle income countries where 24 million children do not have access to appropriate vaccinations every year. An additional challenge is the need to rapidly respond to new threats, such as the Ebola and Zika viruses, that continue to emerge. The development of a &quot;first responder&quot; strategy for the latter means that there are two different types of challenges that future vaccine manufacturing systems will have to overcome: 

1. How to design a flexible modular production system, that once a new threat is identified and sequenced, can switch into manufacturing mode and produce of the order of 10,000 doses in a matter of weeks as part of localised containment strategy? 

2. How to improve and optimise existing manufacturing processes and change the way vaccines are manufactured, stabilised and stored so that costs are reduced, efficiencies increased and existing and new diseases prevented effectively? 

Our proposed programme has been developed with LMIC partners as an integrated approach that will bring quick wins to challenge 2 while building on new developments in life sciences, immunology and process systems to bring concepts addressing challenge 1 to fruition.

Examples of strategies for challenge 1 are RNA vaccines. The significant advantage of synthetic RNA vaccines is the ability to rapidly manufacture many thousands of doses within a matter of weeks. This provides a viable business model not applicable to other technologies with much longer lag phases for production (viral vectors, mammalian cell culture), whereby procurement of the vaccine can be made on a needs basis avoiding the associated costs of stockpiling vaccines for rapid deployment, monitoring their on going stability and implementing a cycle of replacement of expired stock. In addition, low infrastructure and equipment costs make it feasible to establish manufacture in low-income settings, where all required equipment has potential to be run from a generator driven electrical supply in the event of power shortage. This fits the concept of a distributed, flexible platform technology, in that once a threat is identified, the specific genetic code can be provided to the manufacturing process and the doses of the specific vaccine can be produced without delay. Additional concepts that we will explore in this category include the rapid production of yeast and bacterially expressed particles that mimic membrane expressed components of pathogenic viruses and bacteria.

Examples of strategies for challenge 2 build on our work on protein stabilisation which has been shown to preserve the function of delicate protein enzymes at temperatures over 100 degrees C. We shall exploit this knowledge to develop new vaccine stabilisation and formulation platforms. These can be used in two ways: (a) to support the last few miles of delivery from centralised cold chains to patients through reformulation and (b) for direct production of thermally stable forms, i.e. vaccines that retain their activity for months despite being not being refrigerated. 
 
We believe that the best way to deliver these step changes in capability and performance is through a team-based approach that applies deep integration in two dimensions: between UK and LMIC partners to ensure that all the LMIC considerations are &quot;baked in&quot; from the start and between different disciplines accounting for the different expertise that will be required to meet the challenges.","2017-12-01","2021-09-30",10097570,"GBP","EPSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=EP/R013764/1"
"172","EP/R013764/1",2,"Future Vaccine Manufacturing Hub: Advancing the manufacture and deployment of cost effective vaccines","Vaccine manufacturing systems have undergone evolutionary optimisation over the last 60 years, with occasional disruptions due to new technology (e.g. mammalian cell cultures replacing egg-based systems for seasonal influenza vaccine manufacture). Global vaccination programmes have been a great success but the production and distribution systems from vaccines still suffer from costs associated with producing and purifying vaccines and the need to store them between 2 and 8 degrees C. This can be a challenge in the rural parts of low and middle income countries where 24 million children do not have access to appropriate vaccinations every year. An additional challenge is the need to rapidly respond to new threats, such as the Ebola and Zika viruses, that continue to emerge. The development of a &quot;first responder&quot; strategy for the latter means that there are two different types of challenges that future vaccine manufacturing systems will have to overcome: 

1. How to design a flexible modular production system, that once a new threat is identified and sequenced, can switch into manufacturing mode and produce of the order of 10,000 doses in a matter of weeks as part of localised containment strategy? 

2. How to improve and optimise existing manufacturing processes and change the way vaccines are manufactured, stabilised and stored so that costs are reduced, efficiencies increased and existing and new diseases prevented effectively? 

Our proposed programme has been developed with LMIC partners as an integrated approach that will bring quick wins to challenge 2 while building on new developments in life sciences, immunology and process systems to bring concepts addressing challenge 1 to fruition.

Examples of strategies for challenge 1 are RNA vaccines. The significant advantage of synthetic RNA vaccines is the ability to rapidly manufacture many thousands of doses within a matter of weeks. This provides a viable business model not applicable to other technologies with much longer lag phases for production (viral vectors, mammalian cell culture), whereby procurement of the vaccine can be made on a needs basis avoiding the associated costs of stockpiling vaccines for rapid deployment, monitoring their on going stability and implementing a cycle of replacement of expired stock. In addition, low infrastructure and equipment costs make it feasible to establish manufacture in low-income settings, where all required equipment has potential to be run from a generator driven electrical supply in the event of power shortage. This fits the concept of a distributed, flexible platform technology, in that once a threat is identified, the specific genetic code can be provided to the manufacturing process and the doses of the specific vaccine can be produced without delay. Additional concepts that we will explore in this category include the rapid production of yeast and bacterially expressed particles that mimic membrane expressed components of pathogenic viruses and bacteria.

Examples of strategies for challenge 2 build on our work on protein stabilisation which has been shown to preserve the function of delicate protein enzymes at temperatures over 100 degrees C. We shall exploit this knowledge to develop new vaccine stabilisation and formulation platforms. These can be used in two ways: (a) to support the last few miles of delivery from centralised cold chains to patients through reformulation and (b) for direct production of thermally stable forms, i.e. vaccines that retain their activity for months despite being not being refrigerated. 
 
We believe that the best way to deliver these step changes in capability and performance is through a team-based approach that applies deep integration in two dimensions: between UK and LMIC partners to ensure that all the LMIC considerations are &quot;baked in&quot; from the start and between different disciplines accounting for the different expertise that will be required to meet the challenges.","2017-12-01","2021-09-30",9947570,"GDP","EPSRC","","Active","https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=EP/R013764/1"
"173","GB-CHC-222655-PO5242",2,"Evidence Building and Synthesis Research - Effective Health Care Research Consortium","The Consortium informs policy and influences change through increasing the number of evidence-informed decisions. This is to improve health and health care for the poor in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). We synthesise relevant and reliable research, contributing to a global evidence base that enables health care to become more effective, thereby improving the health of populations, and avoiding public and providers wasting money on ineffective health care or poorly informed research questions. We strive to build the capacity of groups worldwide, equipping them with the skills and knowledge to prepare, interpret, and utilise these reviews.","2010-11-15",NA,6297796.36,"GBP","Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine","Health, general, Medical research","Closed","https://d-portal.org/ctrack.html#view=act&aid=GB-CHC-222655-PO5242"
"174","GB-CHC-222655-PO5242",2,"Evidence Building and Synthesis Research - Effective Health Care Research Consortium","The Consortium informs policy and influences change through increasing the number of evidence-informed decisions. This is to improve health and health care for the poor in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). We synthesise relevant and reliable research, contributing to a global evidence base that enables health care to become more effective, thereby improving the health of populations, and avoiding public and providers wasting money on ineffective health care or poorly informed research questions. We strive to build the capacity of groups worldwide, equipping them with the skills and knowledge to prepare, interpret, and utilise these reviews.","2010-11-15",NA,1701979,"GBP","Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine","Health, general, Medical research","Closed","https://d-portal.org/ctrack.html#view=act&aid=GB-CHC-222655-PO5242"
"175","GB-CHC-287287-PO8422-STEG",2,"Structural Change & Economic Growth ","Structural Transformation and Economic Growth (STEG) aims to develop a strong body of evidence on the underlying processes of economic growth and the changes in structure that take place in an economy when moving from low to middle and high-income status, made accessible to and used by policy-makers for improved economic decision-making. STEG’s aim is to support high-quality academic research that: brings the best economic thinking to structural transformation issues and generate new understanding; has clear policy and programme relevance, and; can be put into practice in developing countries.  
 
In addition, the programme also aims to increase the number of researchers working on structural transformation in low- and lower-middle-income countries (LICs and LMICs) as well as investing resources in the collection of new data and improving the accessibility of existing data.<U+202F> 
 
The programme is delivered through a contract with the Centre for Economic Policy (CEPR) in collaboration with <U+202F>Oxford University, the<U+202F>University of Notre Dame,<U+202F>the African<U+202F>Center<U+202F>for Economic Transformation (ACET), the<U+202F>Yale Research Initiative on Innovation and Scale (Y-RISE), and<U+202F>Groningen Growth and Development Centre of the University of Groningen.<U+202F> ","2020-03-01","2025-02-28",797302.83,"GBP","Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)","Educational research","Active","https://d-portal.org/ctrack.html#view=act&aid=GB-CHC-287287-PO8422-STEG"
"176","GB-CHC-287287-PO8422-STEG",2,"Structural Change & Economic Growth ","Structural Transformation and Economic Growth (STEG) aims to develop a strong body of evidence on the underlying processes of economic growth and the changes in structure that take place in an economy when moving from low to middle and high-income status, made accessible to and used by policy-makers for improved economic decision-making. STEG’s aim is to support high-quality academic research that: brings the best economic thinking to structural transformation issues and generate new understanding; has clear policy and programme relevance, and; can be put into practice in developing countries.  
 
In addition, the programme also aims to increase the number of researchers working on structural transformation in low- and lower-middle-income countries (LICs and LMICs) as well as investing resources in the collection of new data and improving the accessibility of existing data.<U+202F> 
 
The programme is delivered through a contract with the Centre for Economic Policy (CEPR) in collaboration with <U+202F>Oxford University, the<U+202F>University of Notre Dame,<U+202F>the African<U+202F>Center<U+202F>for Economic Transformation (ACET), the<U+202F>Yale Research Initiative on Innovation and Scale (Y-RISE), and<U+202F>Groningen Growth and Development Centre of the University of Groningen.<U+202F> ","2020-03-01","2025-02-28",11143734.03,"GBP","Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)","Educational research","Active","https://d-portal.org/ctrack.html#view=act&aid=GB-CHC-287287-PO8422-STEG"
"177","GB-COH-06274284-TEA2",2,"Transforming Energy Access (TEA) Phase 2","The Transforming Energy Access programme is leading development of innovative technologies, business models, partnerships and skills that will accelerate access to affordable, clean energy services for households and enterprises in developing countries.","2018-10-25","2022-12-31",5430846.68,"GBP","Carbon Trust Advisory Ltd","Energy policy and administrative management","Active","https://d-portal.org/ctrack.html#view=act&aid=GB-COH-06274284-TEA2"
"178","GB-COH-06274284-TEA2",2,"Transforming Energy Access (TEA) Phase 2","The Transforming Energy Access programme is leading development of innovative technologies, business models, partnerships and skills that will accelerate access to affordable, clean energy services for households and enterprises in developing countries.","2018-10-25","2022-12-31",36475098,"GBP","Carbon Trust Advisory Ltd","Energy policy and administrative management","Active","https://d-portal.org/ctrack.html#view=act&aid=GB-COH-06274284-TEA2"
